Let's now take a look at a very, very important part of this course, and that is the AI as a black box problem. What exactly is this? The black box problem refers to AI systems that can produce outputs or decisions without a clear, understandable explanation of how those decisions were made in the first place. It's a black box. We don't know why the AI did this, why it made that decision. And this is very often common in your deep learning systems, large neural networks, and then highly complex models trained on massive data sets. These systems they very typically often prioritize the accuracy over interpretability. When these AI systems make a decision, they don't care about whether or not The humans can understand why it made the decision. All it cares about is how accurate am I with my output? How accurate is it based on the dataset that I have been trained with? Now, as an example, your ChatGPT version 4, it is estimated it has 1. 76 trillion parameters Now, if you don't know what a parameter is, think of a parameter as kind of like a piece of knowledge. For example, let's say ChatGPT knows that Uh a cat has four legs. That could be one parameter, right? And then the thing is, those parameters also have what we call weights. Weights refer to how confident The AI is in predicting an output. So as an example, right, if you ask the AI what has four legs, it could say cat. But then the weight of that result could be 0. 1 because other animals also have four legs, right? A goat has four legs, a camel has four legs, a horse has four legs, a dog has four legs, and so on. So It's not exactly confident that the answer is a cat because there are so many other animals that have four legs. But if you ask it, okay, what has four legs, has whiskers, likes fish, tuna, and also meows Then it knows okay, there's a very high probability it's going to be a cat. So the weight here could be 0. 9. It could almost be a one, which would be 100% certainty, right? So It has its parameters, but these parameters also have weight. So we're talking about 1. 76 trillion parameters. That number is insane. It's impossible to trace how any single output was was produced because so many times these large complex models they have to produce one result based on interactions from billions of parameters. It's fundamentally beyond comprehension. And one other thing here is that a lot of people often ask, why not just look inside, right? If you want to understand why an AI made a decision, can't we just look at the code, right? I mean, we have developers who built this AI system, so we should be able to read the code, right? Yes, code is readable It is basic neural network network architecture. Yes, yes, for sure, yes, we can read the code. Here's the problem though, the learned weights. How do you understand why it assigned 0. 5 to this, but 0. 6 to that, but then 0. 4 to this? And then it's like saying, well, just read across the 1. 76 trillion numbers. It's impossible. Numbers don't tell you what they represent. Looking inside doesn't reveal meaning, okay? Just because you can see the numbers and you can see the weights and all that, it does it still doesn't mean anything. It's in fact it's kind of like opening Pandora's box Again, keep in mind also the shear number. We're talking about 1. 76 trillion parameters. Do you know how insane that is? You have to reach 999 billion parameters before you even get to 1 trillion. It's just, it's insane. So the data sets are so massive. The parameters are so massive and also the weights is just, it's fundamentally beyond comprehension. It's kind of like opening Pandora's box, okay? In an attempt to answer one question or find the answers to one question you end up having to uh you end up getting faced with with thousands of new questions, right? So I just want to clarify before we round up that when it comes to the black box then the opacity issues There's three types, okay? We have intentional, illiterate, and then intrinsic. So intentional, sometimes AI systems may be built to deliberately have this black box issue, okay? So it could be companies who want to keep algorithms secret for competitive advantage. So trade secrets. An organization and company might develop some sort of AI system to help them with their with their uh with their competitive advantage, but they don't want people to understand why the AI would make certain decisions because then their competitors can also build similar AI systems. So proprietary methods, so you can inspect it. No, this is uh proprietary technology. We have everywhere to protect it. Even if you could access it, they won't share So even if they understand why the AI system made the decision, they probably won't tell you. So illegal protection for intellectual property. There is nothing wrong with organizations having intentional opacity. So it's all about prop profit motive against public accountability. But then we have the illiterate opacity. So even with access, most people cannot read the code. We're talking about the expertise gap. Typically your AI developers, these are people with advanced degrees in math, computer science, statistics, how many people have these kinds of degrees. So it creates this dependency on experts. We need people who are actually trained in this highly advanced uh degrees and subjects to be able to tell us what's going on So democratic deficits. You can't challenge what you can't understand. Even if you were impacted by an AI system and you feel you've been negatively treated You can necessarily challenge it if you don't understand why that AI made the decision in the first place, right? And then technical gatekeeping. Before you can even offer your own insight, your own input, your own advice, do you actually even understand how AI works in the first place? So if you don't, if you don't have all these advanced degrees in math Computer science, who are you to even suggest anything as long as AI is involved? You're not qualified to make any remark and then intrinsic. Even experts generally don't on don't know how the systems work Even the best AI developers and engineers in the world, sometimes they themselves don't even understand why AI acts the way it does. So they're not hiding anything. They just don't know. Emerging properties from billions of interactions. Again, this is the hardest problem. Again, we're talking about the sheer enormous data sets, enormous parameters that AI systems have to work with. And then it may be impossible to fully solve. I will see you in the next class