Alrighty, so welcome officially to the AI ethics course. My name is Alex, and the purpose of this video, this introductory lesson Is to welcome you and also give you an overview of what the course is about, what to expect, and how best to take it. So Like I said, my name is Alex. I will be your instructor. And in this course, we are going to be exploring the ethical responsibilities That usually comes with uh designing, deploying, as well as managing our AI systems. So the reason why this course is important and probably why you are taking this course is because We now live in the world of AI. Okay, there's no denying it, AI it is here, and it is said to stay for a very long time And AI is already affecting or influencing so many aspects of our lives from medical decisions, financial approvals, military operations, and so much more. And because of this, our ethics is becoming more and more important. Now, please understand that this course is going to be structured It is going to be practical in that you will be required to think critically a lot of times. Okay, this is going to be a very conversational debate-style type of course. Ethics is a very, very subjective thing. And it's also going to be professionally focused. We will be talking about ethics at the workplace quite a lot. And then it's also real world oriented. I will be using examples from the real world. We will also be making references to certain uh Hollywood movies. I know some people might say, well, you know, it's Hollywood, it's all fiction, it's not real. Now, when it comes to the AI movies Especially like the really good ones, we can actually learn a lot from them. So I will be making some movie references throughout the course. But please, this course is not a pure philosophy theory, okay? I'm not gonna be talking about deep, deep philosophical Our topics. We will delve a little bit into philosophy, just a little bit, but not it's not a course on you know Aristotle and you know other Greek philosophers. Okay, but not doing that in this course It's not about political commentary either, okay? And no abstract moral debate uh in here. Okay, I'm not Gonna judge you for whatever decision decision you might take. I'm not gonna judge you based on what you think might be fair or ethical or non-ethical We're all different and like I said, this particular kind of topics can be very, very subjective. Okay, it all depends on who you are, what you believe in, what your culture is, and so much more. So no judgment here Now, this course is designed for AI engineers and data scientists, product managers, technology leaders Cybersecurity and it is professionals as well as students who might be entering our AI-related careers. So basically, if you walk near AI systems, if you're working with AI professionally Uh, this course will be relevant for you. Again, no philosophy background is required to take this course. Now, what are you gonna learn? Well, you're gonna learn a lot, all right? Okay, you're gonna Learn how you can apply the major ethical frameworks to AI decisions. We will be talking about consequentialism, care ethics, audienology, and you know so much more. Identify bias and fairness risks will be able to evaluate transparency and accountability gaps, and also how AI is used in high-risk domains like in the medical field uh in military campaigns and so on, criminal justice, uh navigate ethical pressure at work, and then draft responsible AI usage guidelines. So you are gonna learn some very practical uh career relevant skills. Now, when it comes to the actual curriculum itself, you will notice that I have added two asterics, asterisk max there. The reason why I did this is because I like to keep my content, my courses fresh and updated So this current curriculum that you see right now might not be the same when you eventually do take this course. Things might have changed. So just keep that in mind. But I do expect a majority of this curriculum to still be uh around. So we're gonna start off with the introduction to ethics, just you know, brief introduction. And then we will talk about the ethical frameworks of AI. We will tackle fairness, uh, bias, and discrimination. And then one of the major issues with AI, which is the transparency uh exponability and then the black box problem basically where we have very sophisticated ai systems they make certain kinds of decisions but then we're not able to understand why They made those decisions. Of course, we will talk about the impact of AI on labor and economy. Safety, alignment, and control, very, very, very important. Obviously, we want to build AI that is safe to use. And then power governance and regulation of AI, a very, very important topic. And then we will take a look at AI in high-risk domains, like I said, in the medical field and criminal justice and so on. And then we will close up with our practical ethics and professional responsibility. Basically, AI at the workplace. So, how best to take this course? How should you approach this course? Well, I need you to engage critically. Okay. Again, you will be required to think critically and come up with your own ideas or justify why something might be the way it is. Uh, you're gonna reflect on real-world examples. Consider your own professional environment as well. We will delve into this a bit later. And then think beyond legality too, responsibility. So it's not just about what is lawful or what is legal. A lot of ethics also uh depends on personal uh responsibility So ethical reasoning will improve with deliberate practice. Okay, the more you start trying to apply ethical frameworks and things like that to real-world scenarios. the better you will become at thinking uh ethically. So the course presentation basically is gonna be a varied style. What do I mean by this? Well a few times you will see me In a slide format. I will hide my face at the you know bottom right corner just like how you're saying right now. Sometimes uh you will see me without the slides. I will be standing talking to you with the white background. Sometimes I will be sitting down as well. The old idea is just to mix things up and keep things kind of, you know, interesting and unpredictable. All right. And then of course I will provide you with the slides that I have used to create this course. They will be available for you as a resource. And uh final thoughts. Well, first of all, once again, thank you for enrolling. So, AI systems They can scale decisions to millions of people instantly. We all know right now ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini, millions and millions of people are using the worldwide. And that number is only going to increase. So Any small changes to how these AI systems think and make decisions can impact millions instantly. So we also have to understand that the ethical consequences can scale just as fast. So the real question when it comes to AI ethics isn't about, you know, can we build this particular AI, but rather, should we actually deploy it and then under what safeguards? Again, it's not about You being able to deploy AI just because you can build AI doesn't necessarily mean that you should. And just because you've got this very powerful AI lying around, it doesn't necessarily mean that you should just deploy it. We have to think about the safeguard. So with all that being said, thank you once again for every rolling. And now let us begin.