So let's talk about AI in the high-risk domain of medical care. Now obviously, this is a high-risk domain because any kind of errors or medical uh misdiagnosis Could lead to results that are life-changing or even fatal. Now, when it comes to the ethical tensions, there's quite a few of them. The very first one we need to tackle would be the accuracy vassos bias Now, what I mean here is that we know for a fact that many medical AI systems are trained on data sets that underrepresent women, people of color. as well as low income populations. Now this can lead to disastrous results like again, you know, misdiagnosis an unequal health outcomes. So this raises an ethical question and that is Would it be acceptable to deploy a model that performs unevenly across demographics if it actually improves overall accuracy? And then what about accountability in the clinical decisions? Now, if there is some sort of misdiagnosis or an error and the patient actually ends up getting harmed as a result, who should take full accountability? Will it be the actual medical doctor? Involved that should take responsibility? Should it be the hospital that should take responsibility? What about the regulator? What about the developer of the AI system? So in this particular kind of domain, accountability can be very difficult to actually pinpoint. And then what about transparency versus performance? We know for a fact that most of the highly sophisticated AI systems like the deep neural networks, they're very, very accurate, very, very efficient. But they also have low interpretability. It can be very difficult difficult to understand why they produce certain kinds of results. Now, medical doctors Very often actually need to be able to fully understand why the AI system would have given a certain kind of diagnosis or a certain kind of result So, what happens in a situation where the doctor is unable to fully interpret or fully explain why the AI system produced a certain kind of result? So this begs the question, alright? The developers of the AI medical systems, should they prioritize accuracy or Interpretability. And of course, we need to talk about consent and data privacy. Just imagine, in order to train a medical AI system, you would have to provide for it hundreds of thousands or possibly even millions of health records from patients. Now the question is did these patients actually consent? To have their medical records used for training these AI systems, who knows? So I'm gonna leave you with this particular question, and that is If an AI system improves cancer detection by 10% overall, but performs 15% worse on one minority group, should it be deployed? I will see you in the next class.