Let's now move on to AI in criminal justice and law enforcement. Now, obviously, this is a very sensitive domain, and we're already using AI quite heavily here. We use AI for uh predictive policing, we use AI for surveillance, we use AI for facial recognition and so much more. So really AI right now has the ability to influence either liberty, freedom, or even incarceration. Now, when it comes to the ethical concerns, there's quite a few of them The very first one here would be historical bias embedded in the training data. Now, if we have any one of these AI systems used for law enforcement. That are trained on data that is biased. This could end up leading to the reinforcement of existing inequities. It could lead to increased unnecessary surveillance of marginalized communities and could also end up creating feedback loops. Now This is what we refer to as the algorithmic amplification of bias. And then what about the issue of due process and exponability? Say, for example, a defendant was denied bail because the AI algorithm deemed him or her to be of high risk. Now ideally the defendant in this kind of scenario should be able to appeal, uh make a complaint, but then If we don't fully understand why the algorithm or the AI system deemed that defender to be high risk If we have another black box problem, then what happens? Do we actually end up allowing the defender to go because we can't interpret the decisions of the AI system? Or do we actually side with the AI system and simply trust it? And what about the facial recognition problems? We've already talked about this in the previous lesson. Where we studied a research that identified a 34% increase in false positives. When facial recognition systems were trying to identify people with darker skin tones. Now these errors aren't just innocent, harmless errors. No, these kinds of errors can lead to wrongful arrests, which could also lead to psychological issues, which could also even lead to repetitional damage. So these aren't just harmless errors. These are errors that could alter the course of one's life So I'm gonna leave you with this particular ethical question, and that is, should predictive policing tools be banned entirely due to the societal risk? Or should they simply be regulated and possibly also improved? I will see you in the next class