Okay, so let's talk about AI safety and alignment. What exactly is AI safety? Well, AI safety refers to the challenge of building AI systems. that reliably operate safely and beneficially even in novel situations or under pressure to achieve their goals. So even when conditions are in, let's say, optimal, okay, even when things aren't going smoothly, even when things go wrong, we still want the AI to reliably operate safely and of course beneficially. So there are two key questions that AI Safety wants to uh ask. First of all, what would happen when a system actually behaves correctly according to its design? But then incorrectly according to human values. That's where the ethical angle comes in. And then what happens when no one Fully understands or controls the system's actions or decisions. What happens then? We're gonna delve into these two uh in this module. So there are three major risks involved When it comes to the application of AI, we have the misuse, accident, and then structural. So let's look at this category of risks one by one, starting off with the misuse. So with misuse, obviously people could deliberately misuse AI to cause harm. For example, deep fakes for fraud, AI-powered cyber attacks. We've had AI being used to spread misinformation as well. So the challenge here is of course the dual use technology. Remember, we talked about this in the nuclear energy. Uh module where I said nuclear energy could be used to create nuclear weapons that can kill people, but then nuclear energy could also be used for medical uh purposes as well. So same capabilities enable both beneficial and harmful applications. And then the accident risks This is where you end up having the unintended harmful consequences from an AI trying to pursue its goals or its objectives. The AI didn't mean to cause harm. It just happened to do so. As an example, recommendation, I'll go with him, optimizing engagement, inadvently promoting misinformation We're gonna delve deeper into this in the alignment uh lesson. But the challenge here is that complex systems typically have emergent behaviors, and then of course the structural risks, it's all about the system, right? Systemic effects. of an AI deployment on society. So the example here is that when you deploy uh AI, you could end up having this algorithmic amplific amplification of inequality or unfairness. And the challenge with this is that it's all algorithmic. It's all systematic. There isn't a single point of failure. So it's very, very difficult to actually figure out why is it that this is actually happening. Now, before we delve into the response, how we're trying to make AI more robust, let's look at the actual issues facing AI as it is right now. The robustness challenges Current AI systems are very brutal in concerning ways. AI systems can easily be manipulated, they can be attacked, they can be modified in very, very easy ways. So, how? Why? First of all We have what we call the adversarial attacks. Small imperceptible perturbations to inputs can cause dramatic failures. In fact, I remember this was last year. There was this particular uh experiment from a university, I believe it was in I think in China. What they did was that they added a very distinct kind of color To a stop sign image, and then the AI actually thought oh it's a speed limit sign just because of the addition of that color So when you have the slight modifications, the AI could be fooled. So also slightly modify the audio and then the voice assistant hears different command than humans do. Implications here are large, especially for security, because now you can have people fooling the facial recognition uh systems. You can have the facial recognition systems misidentifying people Autonomous vehicles as well could also be an issue just from this particular kind of uh attack. And then the distribution shift. AI trained on one data distribution fails when deployed in slightly different contexts. As an example, you may have a medical AI trained on one hospital, but then may perform poorly at another. Maybe because they have different procedures, maybe because they have different equipment. Who knows? And then a self-driving car train in sunny California may struggle in snowy Michigan. The car is used to, you know, the sun, clear roadways, no snow, no ice. You take that same AI to Michigan where it's snowing, icy floors, it ends up performing very, very badly. And then language model trained on formal text generates poor output for causal speech. If you've trained your AI to speak like the Queen's English, right? Very formal and you know very, very, you know, precise in in in the way you know the English people speak. You know, forgive me, that's my Poor attempt at uh at an Englishman's imperson impersonation. Anyway, the point here is that if you train an AI to speak formally, don't expect that AI to now generate text or conversation that sounds causal. It ain't gonna happen. So Edge cases and then also long tails, rare but important scenarios are underrepresented in training. As an example, with the autonomous vehicle encountering Unusual obstacle. For example, let's say livestock has escaped. You have cows or goats on the highway, uh debris. Content moderation systems facing the well form of harmful content. So the real problem here is that the real world that we live in it has infinite edge cases. Most times it is impossible to train the AI for every single scenario. Anything could go could anything could happen. We can't account for every single possible thing that can happen at every single time. So at the end of the day, even with all the training, the AI might still not be adequate adequately trained for very setting kinds of scenarios. And then of course the lack of authenticity quantification. What is this? Many AI systems provide confident predictions even when uncertain. I'm pretty sure you must have experienced this before either with Claude or with Chad GPT. I don't have any hair on my head anymore, and I think I lost the very last strand of hair on my head because of the conversations I've had with Chad GPT. I'm telling you I've asked Chad GPT some questions before and it very confidently tells me, oh, this is how it actually is. This is this, this is this. And I know this isn't this isn't correct, but then Chad GPT would want to argue with you and say, no, I I I know what I'm talking about. Anyway Neural networks often overconfident on out-of-distribution data, dangerous in high-stakes domains. Medical diagnosis, autonomous vehicles. It's easy for me to complain about ChatGPT because the kinds of questions I ask it, I mean like super important, right? But then imagine medical doctors relying on the AI for actual acrydiagnosis. This could be a matter of life or death. So the need here is a systems that know what they don't know. We need to have AI that humbly Says, look, I'm sorry, I don't know what this is. I don't know the answer to this. We need to have AI systems that are bold enough to confess when they don't know the answer to a question or are unable to satisfactorily complete an objective. So that's basically it for the robustness, challenges, the issues facing AI. Join me in the very next video where we're not going to take a look at the current attempts to fix these issues also you then