So let's talk about automation and job displacement. Now, I want you to first of all understand that not all automation is the same thing. In fact There's generally three different types of automation. The very first one would be the most common, that is the task automation. So This would be where AI could be trained to perform a specific kind of task. So as an example, you may have a cybersecurity professional Using AI to go through the security logs from the previous day. Next would be the job automation. Now this is where an actual job Could simply be replaced by AI through automation. An example would be your toll booth operator. And then the third. is what we call the sector transformation. So you will have entire sectors like manufacturing or transportation or communication. Not been replaced but rather been restructured. Now when it comes to automation in itself, It doesn't necessarily replace a job per se. It replaces the tasks that make up that particular job. So If we're talking about the kinds of jobs that are vulnerable to being replaced by AI, well, you're looking at jobs or tasks. Or roles that are very repetitive and run on routine. So if you have a particular kind of task that is done maybe on a daily basis, is the exact same process, the exact same procedure That could easily be replaced by AI. Next would be your clerical or administrative roles. This could also be replaced by AI. You have your customer support In fact, I'm pretty sure right now you must have experienced uh chatting with a with a with a chatbot, right? Maybe you're trying to seek assistance either from your bank or some website, and then the chatbot automatically uh takes over and tries to assist you. Before eventually, if if needed, forwarding your issue to like an actual R person. But then the third kinds of jobs that are at threat that could be replaced by AI Would obviously be your entry-level jobs and even some mid-level uh roles as well. I will go as far as to say that even the how do you call them the high the the high skilled roles or the advanced jobs or roles, they too aren't exactly immune to the effects of AI. Now they won't be replaced by AI because these are advanced roles. However, their roles, their tasks could be restructured. In order to accommodate the use of AI. Now, when it comes to the ethical concerns with the automation and job displacement. One of the ethical concerns is that many organizations, especially like the big ones, they will simply go ahead and replace their workers with AI and automation and then simply claim that hey It is what it is. It's the market that decides what we're going to do. And it's no, it's simply inevitable, right? But another ethical concern would be the secondary effects of actually displacing certain kinds of rules. Now an example here would be your truck drivers, right? Truck drivers In most countries, at least that I know of, they they get paid really well. It's almost like a mid-level kind of uh mid-level kind of occupation, right? So the ethical con concern here is that If you were to replace these human truck drivers with you know AI self-driven trucks instead Not only are you going to make the truck drivers uh redundant, you're going to uh re take their jobs away from them. But you're also going to have secondary effects on other businesses. Take for example, what would your typical human truck driver do? They drive on the road for several hours. They say, okay, you know what? I need a break. I need to relax. So what do they do? Maybe they stop by at a small restaurant or some eatery. They eat their food. The restaurant makes some money from them and then maybe a few hours a few hours later it's night. They feel you know what I need to sleep. They check into a motel, they check into it to a hotel. That motel or hotel also makes some money as well. So the escal concern here is that if you're going to replace These kinds of people, not only are you taking the jobs away from them, but you're also going to have a negative impact on other businesses as well. Because Going back to the truck driver example, the AI-driven truck doesn't need to eat, the AI-driven truck doesn't need to sleep. So hotels, restaurants, and other kinds of establishments that may have benefited. From an actual human truck driver will no longer be able to do so anymore. So that's basically it for uh automation and job displacement Gemin in the very next video where we will not talk about AI augmentation LCU then