Alright, so let's talk about building ethical culture in organizations. Now, if you are a leader, a manager, basically if you're somebody who is in a position to enforce ethical culture in the organization. This lesson is going to be for you and thank you for watching. So It is the important to understand that it all starts from the top. Leadership signaling, it all starts with you If you're the type of manager who prioritizes growth and profits over safety, guess what? Your employees will do the exact same thing as well. So again, ethics must be modeled from the top and it will sprinkle down. So What are the ways how you can create an ethical culture? First of all, take a look at the incentive alignment. Way too many organizations they reward their employees based on the speed. Scale, revenue, they don't care about anything else. So obviously the employee would say, Well, if you don't care how I get the job done, just as long as I get it done, then guess what? I'm gonna cut corners just so I can get the job done as quickly as possible and drive more revenue for the business I will get rewarded, right? Instead You want to add other performance metrics like risk reduction, compliance adherence, and then responsible AI metrics. Okay, so these should be very, very important. This should be included in your performance metrics and then psychological safety. Your employees should feel safe to come forward and object. or speak up their mind when they don't agree with what's been proposed. So employees must feel safe to raise concerns, admit model failures. And then question decisions as well. Without psychological safety, ethics will collapse. Obviously, if they're too afraid to say something because they fear that, oh, I'm gonna get fired, I'm gonna get demoted, then they're never gonna speak up Right? So you want to make sure that they feel free to say, you know what, I don't agree with this. I think this is wrong. Make sure you create that kind of culture And then the structural oversight, very, very, very important. Make sure that you have things like AI review boards. model risk committees, algorithmic audits, bias testing protocols, and so much more. Basically, ethics should not be an afterthought It shouldn't be something like a checklist that you just check and say, okay, we're compliant or whatever. No, it must be operationalized Make sure it is something that's taken very, very, very seriously within the organization. I will see you in the next class.