Let's now focus on the fourth and final framework, and that's going to be the care-based ethics. Now, the thing about care-based ethics is that it focuses very heavily on empathy And it doesn't focus on outcomes like consequentialism or rules like deontology. Instead, it asks the question of who will be harmed if this particular action is taken. So it focuses on the vulnerable groups and also how those groups can be protected. So, as an example, right, let's imagine we have this scenario where you know we are all championing you know the use of free speech, right? Everyone should be able to say whatever they want to say. Free speech for everyone, people should say whatever they want to say at any given time. Fine. But then because of free speech, there is also the possibility that certain kinds of people might be harassed. So care ethics will come in and say, okay. Let's focus on the vulnerable groups because of free speech, how we can protect them from harassment, and also how they can participate effectively. So The thing about care-based ethics is that it focuses very heavily on context and not necessarily rules, and it also tends to critique the masculine focus on certain kinds of abstract principles. Now we do have some key strengths of the care-based ethics. One is the fact that it highlights the importance of empathy and attention, which is of course, which are of course very, very, very important. And then also it brings into focus vulnerable groups that might otherwise have been ignored or neglected. And also, it is very context sensitive. It recognizes the fact that you know what, sometimes we can't just focus on just you know outcomes only or the rules only. Context is very, very important, and as such It is a very practical kind of framework you can apply in the real world. And then also it develops emotional intelligence alongside rational analysis. But with all that being said, it also does have its key weaknesses and one is the fact that just like with the virtue based ethics, you cannot scale care based ethics. Yes, it's great that we can focus on individual care. But we can't focus on individual care when billions of users are involved. It's simply not practical. And then what happens in a situation where you have two or more vulnerable groups? Which of these groups will get the most amount of care, right? And in certain situations, bias may play a key role in determining who actually gets the care. And we might also have some other vulnerable groups that might be ignored, such as you know, groups that might be affected in the future Those kinds of groups might be ignored in favor of the groups that are currently being affected. And then also it is very insufficient for policy, right? Like Being caring isn't actionable governance. It's all nice and sweet that you want to be caring and you want to be, you know, you want to focus on empathy. But sometimes we do need concrete accountability mechanisms and not empathy or care. So in certain situations This particular kind of framework may not be applicable. So to summarize, in the real world, like care ethics reminds us to center affected people's experiences Especially the vulnerable ones. All right. But however, on its own, it's not going to be sufficient. We do need to combine care ethics with other approaches for effective governance. I will see you in the next class.