Let's spend a few minutes to take a look at a real-world case study involving an African-American gentleman who was wrongfully arrested because of AI. So when we get to the interview room, the first thing they had me do was read my rights to myself And then sign off that I read and understand my rights. A detective turns over a picture of a guy inside Chinola and he's like, so that's not you I look, I said, no, that's not me. He turns another paper over. He says, I guess this not you either. I pick that paper up and hold it next to my face. I said, this is not me. Now the case I'm referring to involves a man who goes by the name of Robert Julian Bochak Williams. A black man, he was arrested in Detroit, Michigan back in January of 2020, and his supposed crime was that he stole a watch. So what exactly happened here? It turns out that we have this watch store called Shinola. A black man went there and stole a watch. Now there was a surveillance camera that captured footage of the suspect. So obviously the detectives were called in, they found the footage. they fed the footage into their facial recognition system powered by Amazon's uh recognition AI, and the AI wrongfully claimed that Robert Williams was in fact The person in that footage. So they went through the database, they found Robert Williams' address Drove to his house, arrested him right in front of his two daughters and his wife. They took him back to the station. They interrogated him for almost 30 hours. And eventually uh they had to release him because upon further investigation they realized that hold on a second. This suspect, this man that we're holding in in interrogation, is actually not the person in the video And uh it is believed, I don't know if this is true, but it is believed that Robert Williams himself very sarcastically asked the detective that, hey, look, uh, I hope you don't think that all black people look the same, right? So Obviously, you know, he was eventually let go, and I believe he filed a lawsuit. I don't know how that went. But let's talk about why this happened in the first place, okay? First of all, uh the incompetence of the detectives. Obviously, any rational detective, upon seeing the picture of Robert Williams They would have realized that hold on a second, this doesn't look like the same person in the footage because they were of different heights, different builds, different facial structure. But for some reason, they believed that their AI system could never produce a false result. You know, so they trusted the AI. And uh yeah, it turns out that the AI was actually wrong. But the key question here should be why is it that the AI system wrongfully claimed that Robert Williams was the suspect when in fact he was innocent? In fact, numerous studies have shown that facial recognition systems, especially those powered by AI, obviously. Tend to have much higher error rates when dark-skinned people are involved. Now there was an MIT study back in 2018 that found error rates to be only 0. 8% for light-skinned males. But a whooping 34. 7% for dark-skinned females. There is another study by the National Institutes of Standards and Technology back in 2019 And they tested 189 algorithms and found false positive rates for African American and Asian faces were 10 to 100 times higher than for white faces. So again, the key question is why is it that these facial recognition systems have much higher error rates for dark-skinned people than light-skinned people? And we know that AI systems don't just magically create bias. So why? It all comes down to the data with which these AI systems have to work with Historically, it's been proven that whenever AI systems are trained with large amounts of data sets, there seems to be an overwhelming representation of light skin faces in those datasets when compared to dark skin faces. So there's a much higher representation Of light-skinned people in the datasets with which these AI systems are trained with than dark-skinned faces. And that's why these AI systems have are able to do a much better job in identifying light-skinned people than dark skinned people it all comes down to the data with which they have been trained with and this is why Whenever new AI systems are being developed or being built, it is so important that the data they are trained with is diverse enough to ensure that we don't have this kind of uh data bias. I will see you in the next class