So let's take a look at the very first ethical framework and this is going to be consequentialism, otherwise known as the outcome-based ethics. So the core principle behind consequentialism is that we are concerned mostly by the outcomes of an action. It's never about the intent. We don't care why an action was taken, what's the reason behind it, why was it taken? It's all about the results, it's all about the outcomes. So if it has a very positive outcome, it must be ethical, right? So think of it as the you know the end justifies the means kind of logic. As an example, let's say there's a new kind of AI technology that powers uh self-driving cars. And the argument here is that, well, with the deployment of self-driving cars We can save 1. 2 million lives every year. However, the use of self-driving cars will also result in the loss of a thousand lives now obviously when you look at the comparison you're saving 1. 2 million lives and you're losing a thousand lives right it's such a massive gap So it must be ethical because it's for the greater good. We're saving far more lives than we're losing. So the use of self-driving cars with the help of AI must be ethical, right? Or as another example, let's say medical diagnosis, right? Imagine some new AI technology that can diagnose cancer correctly 80% of the time. 20% of the time the diagnosis is wrong, but the argument here is that hey, once again, it's 80% to 20%. And because the outcomes are generally far more favorable, therefore it must be ethical, right? So we do have some key strengths of consequentialism. One is the fact that because Emotions aren't involved in here, intent isn't involved, it's all about the results, it's all about the outcomes. It is very, very pragmatic, right? And it's also quantifiable. This kind of framework relies very heavily on statistics, numbers, chats, things like that. So there are certain things that we can actually measure. We can measure certain kinds of outcomes with this framework. And also It's the kind of framework that can be applied on a massive scale. So many kinds of technologies, such as the deployment of mass surveillance or self-driving cars, we can deploy them on a large scale and as such this framework can also be used on a large scale and then this kind of framework Also tends to align very well with policy and risk management. I guarantee you that whenever the management of risks or policy management is involved You're gonna have this framework in play. Now, with all that being said, obviously it's not a perfect kind of framework. It does have some very key Weaknesses. One is the fact that minorities can get crushed whenever this framework is applied. Once again, imagine you have some kind of new AI technology that favors 95% of the population. But negatively impacts the remaining 5%. Now obviously, if we were in the 95% camp, you and I, we might say, well, it sucks to be you in the you know 5% camp, sorry, but you know it is what it is But then if the roles were reversed, if you and I were in the 5% camp, if we were the minorities, then obviously we wouldn't say things like, well, it sucks to be us, right? So this kind of framework Can actually very negatively impact minorities. And also, because this framework relies very heavily on the outcomes, there are certain kinds of trade-offs that might be suck that might be involved And certain things like human rights might be sacrificed. As an example, with the mass deployment of surveillance cameras on the streets. One can argue that hey, with the deployment of this, you know, AI surveillance cameras, crime rates will go down 80%. Fantastic. That's a very, very positive outcome. But in exchange The human right to privacy must be sacrificed, right? That's another key issue with this framework because it focuses so very heavily on the outcomes, on the results. Certain things like human rights, human dignity, human privacy, these kinds of things can be sacrificed in the process. And also, even though yes, there are certain things we can measure, With this framework, there were other things we can't actually measure. Things like happiness, uh suffering. Frustration, depression, these are some of the things that we cannot measure with this particular framework. And even though once again, yes, it relies heavily on statistics and numbers, there are just certain kinds of things we cannot measure. We can't measure emotions, right? We can measure the violation of human rights with this particular kind of framework. So to summarize, consequentialism asks the very right question, which is What's going to be the outcome? What is going to be the impact? However, it can justify real harms to vulnerable groups in pursuit of aggregate benefits Thank you for watching, I will see you in the next class