Let's now talk about the corporate versus public interest in AI development. And first things first, the profit motive. Alright, now I don't care what some AI Company CEO tells you, most of them are primarily driven by profit. They want to make money, and there is nothing inherently wrong with that. Companies are built to make money It's just natural and that's perfectly fine. So in their attempt to maximize profit, they might try to maximize the shareholder value Increased growth and market dominance. Of course, they will look at the shorter metrics, the quarterly earnings. And of course, they will also have this mentality of you know winner takes all. You know, we have to dominate. We have to be the winners Unfortunately, when it comes to the development of AI, with these kinds of motives, it can lead to some very serious consequences. For example, you will have speed been prioritized over safety. We need to get the AI out there as quickly as possible. You know, so They're not gonna care about the safety. All they care about is how quickly that AI can be deployed. So you move fast and you break things. Addictive, engaging products prioritized over the beneficial ones. So instead of creating an AI or a product that can be truly beneficial to their users, they might say, hey, you know what? We have this other product. That we can create that's gonna be very addictive. And the users, our users, they're gonna they're gonna be using this AI every single day. They're gonna keep paying to use it because it's addictive. So therefore, they're gonna prioritize making those kinds of products. And then privacy is sacrificed for data collection. Hey, we need the data of our users. Forget about the privacy. We're gonna exchange the privacy for the data because data is so important. And then regulation resisted as impediment to profit. They might say, you know what? We have to resist every attempt at the government or the public to regulate us because if they do so, we might not be able to do certain things that can increase our profit. So Therefore, we're gonna try to resist regulation as much as possible. These are the consequences for AI development. And then of course you have this AI arms race dynamic, which is predominantly between the United States and China. But even in the US, forget about China for a second, even in the US you have this AI arms race between companies Between Open AI and Anthropic, between Anthropic and Meta, and so on. So you have companies fear being left behind by their competitors. You have companies now saying, hey, you know what? Our competitor has launched this new AI product. If we don't launch ours very, very soon. Our clients are gonna leave us, they're gonna go to our competitors. So therefore, we need to release our own AI as quickly as possible. And then of course this will lead to pressure to deploy before fully testing safety. They don't care about safety anymore. Safety is secondary. All they care about is hey, we gotta get the AI out there as quickly as possible. And then safety in itself becomes a competitive disadvantage. Because when you have two companies struggling to dominate the market, you have one that ignores safety. They release their AI very, very quickly. And you have another one trying to do the right thing. They say, you know what, before we deploy our AI, let's make sure we test it for safety as much as possible. And they estimate: oh, it's gonna take us five months to fully test for safety. They might say, you know what? If we wait five months for this, our competitor is going to win the market. So we have no choice but to deploy our AI as quickly as possible too. And then race to the bottom on ethical standards. Who cares about ethics when you're trying to dominate the market? If your competitors don't care about ethics and they're dominating, guess what? You're very likely going to also say, you know what? Forget about ethics. We need to dominate as well. And that's the problem. So This leads us to a very, very important uh question, which is of course the open versus closed debate. Basically, should powerful AI systems be open sourced? Meaning Should the code, should the way the AI is trained, developed, should that information be open? Should it be accessible to the public? Now you do have people who support and those who are against it. First of all, you have the people who support AI being open source. Because they argue that hey, it's going to offer democratic access. So it's not just going to be the corporate bodies or the government that will use this AI. It's going to be the public, which should be a good thing. And then of course scientific scrutiny and improvement. Now you will have third parties, other people who might be able to scrutinize the AI. And offer actual objective uh uh uh criticism, which can lead to improvement. And then the competition prevents monopoly. We don't want a handful of companies to monopolize the AI market, the AI market is way too powerful. It's way too influential. It's way too important to be dominated by by a monopoly of companies and people. And then of course innovation accelerated when you have more people. Having more access to the AI, it can accelerate innovation, and of course, very very very important, accountability through transparency. When we know who developed the AI, how it was developed, how it's deployed, it's called everything that's full transparency, which will of course lead to accountability. And just when you thought that, well Surely, there can't be any arguments against this. I present to you some very solid arguments for the restriction. First of all, safety concerns. If you want to open up this AI to the public, guess what? They might end up misusing it. They might end up causing harm to themselves and other people. Accidents. And then of course the dual use technology. You may have an AI company that built an AI genuinely for good things. But when you open it up to the public, you might have some people in the public that might end up misusing that AI for malicious purposes. And then they can't unrelease dangerous systems. You can't unrelease them. If you if the AI accompanied by accident, if they created an AI that could be used for dangerous purposes And once they've released that code, that data to the public, they can't take it back. It's out there Now, any bad person, any malicious person in the public can now have access to that information. So they can't take all that information back because now it's open to the public And then of course the consideration of benefits to technically sophisticated actors. So even though you might end up releasing this data to the public. It might still end up at the hands of technically sophisticated actors, aka hackers, cybercriminals, AI criminals who might end up misusing the AI. So, what is the current landscape right now? Okay, what's it like? Well, some companies have open source models, okay, like you know, Meta's a lama, for example, is open source, which is a good thing. But others are still proprietary. OpenAI, despite the name, which is kind of interesting. It says OpenAI, but it's not open. And of course you have tension between their stated values and the business interests. And of course, you have regulatory pressure building in both directions. So we're going to see how this regulation pressure goes. But when it comes to the public interest in the AI, we do have some actual nonprofit AI research. You have the Allen Institute for AI, Patentship on AI, University Research Labs. The challenges for this is you're you're usually funding. All right. Most people with the money, they're not gonna fund non-profit AI research. They'll rather fund uh profit AI research, right? And then of course the compute access. Talent competition within the industry. Most talented AI engineers and scientists and developers would rather work for companies that can pay them handsome salaries than non-profit ones. And then, of course, for the public government AI, you have government-funded research like NSF, DARPA, you have your public sector AI applications. The challenges with the government or public AI interest is that it's much slower. Of course, you have bureaucracy. Anywhere the government is involved, you're going to have plenty of bureaucracy, and of course, the risks of surveillance. Now for cooperative community-owned AI, here you will have data cooperatives, you will have community-controlled algorithmic systems, which are good things. But you do have some challenges in here and you have the technical capacity. You're not gonna have that many technically gifted people in your cooperative community-owned AI. And then of course scaling. These kinds of AI, you can scale them typically beyond the communities where they're developed. And I'm gonna round up by asking some questions. Okay, first of all. Can public interest AI compete with corporate AI? What do you think? Second, should governments provide compute resources For non-profit research. And I might add, if they're gonna do so, well, who's gonna pay for that? Is it gonna be the taxpayers? Who knows? And then how to fund AI development without perfect motive or state control. Is that actually possible? Anyway, these are some questions I wanted to ask you. So think about them. I will see you in the next class.