So let's run up this module by talking about creating ethical guidelines for AI use. Now, your guidelines must include the scope of use, the transparency requirements The data governance, the human oversight rules, the accountability structure, as well as the procedures Shooting case an incident uh occurs. Now let's take a look at them one by one. First of all, the scope of use What systems are going to be covered under the deployment of this particular AI? What exactly is AI use? And then what is prohibited? What are we not allowed to do while deploying the AI? What requires approval as well? These are three key questions that need to be answered. And then, of course, the transparency requirements. We want to be as transparent as possible. So The disclosure of AI use will be mandatory. We are using AI. And then the exponability expectations, right? We need to be able to answer questions like, you know, who would be entitled to an explanation if the AI makes a decision that is, let's say Controversial, right? And then the degree of the exponability as well. And it's also okay to admit that Based on the sophistication of the AI model in use, the degree of exponability might be limited And then, of course, user notification policies. How are we going to notify the users? What are we going to notify them of? And then data governance, okay? Data sourcing standards. We need to have standards. Ideally, we want to use data that is unbiased. So we want to make sure that the sources for our data have certain kinds of standards, they've passed certain kinds of requirements. And then consent requirements also. Okay, we want to make sure that if we're using private data from people, they've actually consented to having their data been used. And then of course bias evaluation protocols. We want to make sure we're not using data that is biased to train our AI models. And then human oversight rules. When will human review be mandatory? It needs to be explicitly stated. And then the escalation pathways. If the very first human can't handle the situation, there needs to be somebody that he or she can escalate it to. And then override authority. A human at some point should be able to override whatever decision the AI has made. And of course, who will that person be? And then accountability structure. So who signs off on the deployment and use of the AI? Who will audit the use, the performance of the AI, and then who will actually be responsibility? Who will own the failures? This need to be answered. And then what if something does go wrong? The AI causes harm. How will it be reported? How quickly will it be investigated? And of course, who will communicate it Publicly publicly. These are the questions to be answered under the incidental response procedures. So ultimately Ethics is a professional obligation. It is a governance discipline, a leadership responsibility. Again, remember it all starts from the top. And then it is also a career-defining choice. So the real test of ethical understanding, it's not about, you know, can you define what fitness is, but rather It is what exactly will you do when fairness conflicts with profit, pressure, or power?