Let's now move on to the next ethical framework, and this is going to be deontology. And you could argue that this is sort of like the exact opposite of consequentialism because In deontology, we don't care about the outcomes of an action. In fact, a key argument here is that some actions are wrong regardless of how positive the outcomes are. So we are a lot more focused on the intent behind an action and not necessarily the results or the outcomes of that action. So the key principles here are that We should only act according to the kinds of rules that we would want to be applied universally to ourselves as well. And then human rights must always be respected. Human dignity must always be respected. And people should be treated as an end in themselves. And not as a means to some sort of outcome. As an example, let's say we had an AI chatbot, right? There's an e-commerce platform that uses an AI chatbot to sell, right And it sells very, very well. In fact, the company makes a lot of money through this particular AI chatbot. But one key reason why it makes a lot of money is because the AI chatbot is very manipulative. Now If it's consequentialism, one could say, well, it's ethical because the company is making a lot of money. The outcomes are very, very positive. The company is generating lots of profits. But because it is doing so in a manipulative way. With deontology, it cannot be ethical because once again people are being manipulated. Now deontology does have some very key strengths. One is the fact that it protects individual rights at all times. And doesn't care about the greater good outcomes, right? It also sets very clear boundaries. We don't care what the outcomes or what the positive outcomes of this particular action are going to be These are certain boundaries that you cannot cross. Also, it respects human dignity as a non-negotiable. Again. We don't care about your results, we don't care about your outcomes, human dignity, human rights will always come first, and it also provides very firm uh God will for ethics. However, with all that being said, it also does have some key weaknesses. One is the fact that rules can conflict. Okay, let's say we're not supposed to lie, right? As humans, we should never lie, lying is wrong. However, what if in order to save someone's life you had to lie? What do you now do in that particular particular kind of situation? See, this framework tends to assume that most things are black or white, right? It's either good or bad, right or wrong. But we all know that in the real world. There are a lot of issues that are gray. Sometimes there is no simple answer to a particular kind of problem. So it can be very impractical and very, very rigid because again It relies on this absolutism kind of mentality which offers little to no flexibility. And then it also ignores outcomes entirely. Unlike consequentialism that takes outcomes very, very seriously, again, the ontology doesn't regard outcomes at all. And sometimes that could be a huge mistake. There are certain situations or scenarios where we should absolutely take a look at the outcomes before deciding whether or not a particular action is ethical. And then the key lesson to summarize this is that deontology does have a very great strength in that it protects human rights, it protects human dignity. That is fantastic. However, it can also be very rigid and impractical In the real world that relies very heavily on the use of context and also flexibility. I will see you in the next class.