Let me start off this lesson by asking you a question. If AI increases the level of productivity within our society. Does this mean that everyone will actually benefit from this increase in productivity? Or does this mean that productivity will end up concentrating power? Now, we very often hear that AI will make businesses and organizations more efficient. It's going to lead to increase in productivity of the employees. That is true, but we know that efficiency isn't always fairness. So the real question that we should be asking ourselves is not whether or not AI will increase wealth, We know that AI will in fact increase wealth. It's already happening. The real question we should be asking ourselves is who is actually going to capture that wealth? And who will not? Now, when it comes to the industry of AI development, AI generally tends to favor companies that are already very, very powerful. Now, why Well, let's talk about the massive amounts of data sets required to train the AI models. Obviously, if you want to break into AI development, you need to have access to large amounts of data sets And of course, AI infrastructure tends to be very, very expensive to maintain. So the barriers of entry to AI development are very, very steep. So at the end of the day You have only a very few select number of companies who can afford to purchase or acquire the datasets needed. To train the AI models, who can afford to hire the highly skilled specialists for AI development, and of course who have the necessary revenue and funding to maintain the AI infrastructure. And unfortunately It's a very tiny select number of companies, typically either in the United States or China. And for the rest of the other businesses and organizations around the world They end up becoming AI dependent and not necessarily AI-empowered. There is also this massive shift between the productivity gains and wage gains. See, historically, whenever we've had some new kind of technology, that technology has ended up creating new kinds of jobs, it's led to productivity. It's led to the increase in wages, it's typically also expanded the middle class. Unfortunately, AI is a little bit different. We've seen that AI Will in fact replace many, many low-skilled jobs, and even mid-level uh jobs will be replaced by AI as well. So at the end of the day. You end up having companies who are massively deploying AI. They end up making plenty of profits because they no longer have to pay. They are low-skilled. Employees or even some of their mid-skilled employees. So they end up increasing their profits, the lower the cost of production, the lower the costs to run the business. And of course, it also leads to the product increase in productivity of the remaining employees who are using AI in that company. So while you have while you have all these companies increasing their profits, becoming more and more wealthy, more and more powerful You also end up having a lot of people who end up losing their jobs. And the big ethical concern here is If we end up with so many people getting fired because they've been replaced by AI, wouldn't this lead to some sort of social uh instability in our societies. And we can't also ignore the fact that so many organizations and businesses and people in general Are starting to rely on AI more and more. So this simply means that the very few companies who actually control these AI models, who control this AI inf infrastructure, end up having the willpower. Another major ethical concern involves the data. Now we know fully well that data could be regarded to be the lifeblood Of AI development. Without data, you're not going to be able to train your AI models. So the AI companies, they know this, okay? And the ethical concern here is what would these companies be willing to do in order to gain access to the very large amounts of datasets that they need? To train their AI models? Will they be willing to cut corners? Will they be willing to abuse the privacy of their users? Just so they can gain access to that data. Who knows? So at the end of the day, when we talk about AI, We shouldn't just be talking about how AI is changing the world, how AI is increasing our levels of productivity. We should also be talking about the economic impacts of AI. Because we can now see that it is the very few companies who control the AI development, who control the AI infrastructure. who will actually end up having very very powerful uh economic influence. So I'm gonna leave you with this question. If AI ends up creating unprecedented levels of wealth like we've never seen before in the history of humanity, but this wealth is captured By only a very select few number of people and organizations, what kind of society are we actually building? I will see you in the next class.