So now let's take a look at the ethical responses to bias and harm how can we fight back against these issues. Now the goal here Is not to create a re a bias-free AI. Ethical AI isn't bias-free AI because guess what? We're always gonna have bias one way or the other. You cannot completely eliminate bias. That's not that's just not the way the world works. So the goal here isn't to try to eliminate bias entirely, however. We want to be able to detect it when it arises, reduce it as much as possible, and then manage its impact responsibly. That's the goal, that's the whole goal of ethical AI. So how can we do this? First of all, uh regarding bias audits, we can do regular testing across demographic groups And then of course transparent reporting of disparities. There will always be disparities no matter what. But at least let's be transparent about let's acknowledge the fact that yes We do have some disparities in this certain kinds of uh instances. And then of course the use of diverse design teams. Broader perspectives will reduce blind spots. And ethical risks will be a lot easier to identify early whenever we use uh diverse design teams. And then of course, human oversight. Extremely important. Humans must retain authority. We must retain retain authority at all times, especially in high impact decisions. If it's for low-risk tasks. Low risk uh you know capabilities, sure we can assign or delegate that to AI. The impact will be very, very low. But whenever the decisions or the results are very, very critical, we want to make sure there is at least some level of human oversight. We cannot just completely blindly trust AI 100%. And then clear accountability. Someone or some people must be responsible for harm. They must be. We just can't deploy AI, something goes wrong, and then hey, we don't know who who we're gonna hold accountable. It shouldn't be that way. So The algorithm decided is not an excuse. We can't say, well, we designed the AI system, it made that decision, and uh, well, you know, that's just the way it is. No There needs to be clear accountability whenever harm or damage has been caused, and then of course the right to challenge. Individuals must be able to question outcomes, appeals and corrections must exist. If as individuals we feel we've been unfairly targeted or unfairly discriminated against by AI, we should be able to appeal the decision and make our case. AI shouldn't be allowed to have the final decision and somebody was negatively impacted and then they don't have a right to make a complaint. Or lodge and appeal. That shouldn't be it. So once again, uh bias audits, of course, regular testing will account for this. Make sure we use diverse design teams, human oversight at all times, especially in high-impact decisions, clear accountability, and of course the right to challenge. I will see you in the next class