Okay, so let's talk about ethical decision-making frameworks. Okay, I'm gonna give you a six-step framework for being able to make a decision ethically, but first of all Why do we have ethical failures? One thing we need to understand is that ethical failures aren't usually as a result of evil intent. People who aren't ethical, it's not that they're evil. There's other reasons why it happens, okay? Time pressure, right? Maybe for example at the workplace We need to get a certain kind of project done as quickly as possible. And because there is that time pressure, you may be forced to cut corners organizational incentives as well. Hey, you know you're gonna get a bonus, a big fat bonus if you get this done and you're thinking, you know what, I'm gonna have to cut corners, I'm gonna have to make the unethical decisions so I can get that big fat check, right And then ambiguous responsibility as well, you know, when nobody is directly responsible, well, you know, it allows people to be unethical. And then the whole group think, okay Everyone else is doing it right everyone else is doing it so if we partake if we do the exact same thing it's not gonna make that much of a difference Oh look, you know, our competitors, they're doing that and they're making a lot of money, they're pulling ahead, they're getting a big advantage on us. Obviously, we know we have to do the exact same thing. So these are just A few of the many reasons why ethical failures do occur. Now, what is the six-step practical six-step ethical decision framework? First of all, We need to understand what the problem is. Okay. If there isn't a problem, then this wouldn't even be an issue in the first place. So there has to be a problem, and we need to be able to identify that problem clearly Three key questions to ask. First of all, what exactly is being built or been deployed? What exactly is it? Second, what could go wrong? Analyze the worst case scenario. Alright, what could potentially go wrong? And if it does go wrong, who will be affected? Alright, so when you are able to answer these three questions, you will be able to define what the problem is. Alright, and of course avoid vague language You want to be as direct as possible. Forget about being, you know, what's the word that diplomatic? Or you know, just be very, very, very direct, okay? Second is to identify the stakeholders. Who are the people going to be involved with the deployment or use? of this particular AI. So who will be impacted? Obviously, you will have your end users, non-users who could also be indirectly affected. Keep that in mind, okay, sometimes it's not people who use the AI directly. It could just be other people. Who aren't even directly using that particular AI. And then vulnerable populations, regulators, employees, society at large, who are the stakeholders involved? in the deployment of this AI. Ethical blind spots often occur because on-sinn stakeholders are ignored. Keep that in mind. And then number three is to now apply multiple ethical lenses. I will say this is probably the most important step. Because the thing is, by default, we all have a certain kind of ethical lens that we analyze a particular situation or scenario, right? By default, you might be a consequentialist. By default, you might be an odontologist. So when you identify what the problem is, by default, something will trigger in your head and you're gonna think, oh This is how it should be, but please try to be as objective as possible and apply the multiple ethical lenses. So Take a look at the consequentialist analysis. Okay. What are the likely outcomes? Look at the ontological analysis. How it's been violated. Virtue ethics. You can apply your care ethics or financial analysis and just try to see things from a different perspective. And then if the conclusions do conflict, then you will be able to see what the actual tension is. Step four is to now evaluate the harm severity and reversibility. Basically What is the risk involved in here? Alright, so key questions to ask: will the harm be irreversible or reversible? Is it gonna be systematic or isolated? And is it going to be scalable? Obviously, if the harm is reversible And it is isolated and it is not scalable, we might say, okay, it's passable, it's acceptable. Obviously, you know, we don't want to accept harm, but if it's if the harm is very, very minimal And it's not life-threatening, it's not something yu huge, right? And it can be reversed and it's not scalable. We might accept the risks and simply move on But then if the risks are irreversible, it's systematic, and it can scale at a large impact, then obviously you know that this is a very, very high risk uh deployment of AI. And then step five, you want to consider both legal and regulatory constraints. Always remember that ethics is not the same thing as the law. Just because it is lawful doesn't mean that it is ethical. And always remember that law sets the minimum threshold. So some key questions to ask in here Are the compliance obligations and then are the emerging regulations actually relevant? And then the final step, step six, always decide, or well obviously you're gonna decide and then you're gonna document. Always always document so documentation matters because it will prove that you are able to identify what the risks were. What mitigation was implemented, hopefully, and then who actually approved the entire steps. So this will protect both the organization and especially the individual are professionals. So In closing, ethical reasoning must be repeatable and structured and not intuitive or reactive. I will see you in the next class