Let's now move on to talk about three fundamental pillars of this course: Ethics, Law, and Compliance. We're going to talk about what they are and compare the three of them. So One thing I want you to keep in mind is that a system can be fully legal fully compliant and still be deeply unethical. A lot of people seem to believe that well as long as The AI system is compliant. As long as it's legal, it's within the confines of of the law. It's ethical, no Being lawful, being compliant, doesn't always necessarily mean that you're also ethical. So AI as a technology will expose this gap more clearly than almost any other technology. So AI typically evolves much faster than the law. Again, remember that laws, regulations are often very reactive. Ethical harm often appears before legal frameworks exist. Any kind of compliance, legal frameworks, the law, very often they'll all be active towards the misuse of AI. So what is ethics? What is ethics? Ethics typically asks, what should we do? What should we do? It's very often concerned with the values. Harm. Rights, fairness, and of course human dignity. This is what ethics is all about. What should we do? Law, on the other hand, law defines the minimum acceptable behavior. Enforceable by the state, of course, typically the government has to enforce the law Jurisdiction specific, and then of course often lags behind the technology, right? So the critical point here is that law reacts to harm Sometimes, yes, the laws are we have good laws, we have effective laws, but they very often come in late. Okay, it's only after the harm, it's only after the damage has been done that's when the law comes in Of course, you can argue that okay, the law has to come in to prevent that harm from occurring again, which is a fair point. However, law cannot anticipate every ethical risk. It's not possible. Now, compliance Is organizational adherence to laws and regulations. It emphasizes checklists. We have to do A, B, C, D, E. Documentation, of course, controls and risk avoidance. This is what compliance is all about. The important distinction here is that compliance is procedural, not moral When you're filling out a compliance checklist, we're not thinking about morals here. We're not thinking about the values, the dignity. No. Instead, it's a procedure. We have to do A and then after A we have to do B, but we cannot do B without doing A first. You know, it's it's a procedure, it's it's a it's a regulation you have to follow. So it asks, are we allowed to do this? If we do this, are we compliant? Can we actually do this? That's basically what compliance is. So To compare all three together, ethics it asks what should we do, what should be done. It sets the direction It sets the direction. Okay, this is what needs to be done. The law asks what must be done. Because it's the law. What must be done? It sets boundaries. Compliance sets what is required to avoid fines. That's typically what compliance is all about We don't want to get fined. We don't want to pay penalties because if we are not compliant and then something happens, we can pay huge fines. Okay, that's what compliance really is all about. So it ensures adherence. That's typically what compliance really is. Let's just adhere to this this this this requirements from the government, right? That's what compliance really is. So Illegal but unethical. Again, you can have technologies, you can have AI systems that are legal. It's perfectly fine, but it's not necessarily ethical. For example, facial recognition deployed legally but without consent Yes, we you can deploy facial recognition and then argue that well, the more facial recognition we have, the more effective it's gonna be to assess who is who, and you know, crime might go down because If we have fissure recognition software everywhere, criminals might be less inclined to commit crimes because they know, hey, they know they can be identified But then also people don't want to be walking down the street and then have them being recorded by the government by Big Brother, you know, as some people might say. So it's unethical Employee monitoring tools that invade privacy. Every organization has the right. It's perfectly legal for them to monitor what their employees are doing. After all, they're paying the salaries, right? But then How would you as an employee feel if you know that every website you go to, everything you click on, everything you type on your computer is being monitored by somebody in HR? It's kind of creepy, right? Yeah. And then algorithmic scoring that is lawful but discriminatory. Yeah, when you think about giving out bank loans and the AI has been programmed to give loans to only people who Have a certain kind of score, you're gonna have people who may not meet that score, but aren't necessarily dubious people or malicious people, but because they didn't achieve that score They get discriminated against. It happens all the time. So the issue with the compliance-only thinking, and unfortunately, most organizations are like this. For them, compliance is it's it's more like a uh more like a burden. Oh we have to do this. Okay, let's just do it and get this over with. It's not something most organizations enjoy doing. So the issue here is that if it's legal, it's fine thinking. They think that, well, as long as we're compliant, as long as we've satisfied this checklist, then we're fine, we're legal, we're fine, right? Ethics reduced to box ticking. That's another big issue right here. Now ethics which should be which should which should set the tone, which should set the direction, has been reduced to just a checklist that you just check. A, B, C, D. Okay, we're fine, let's move on, right? That's the problem. And then responsibility outsourced to regulation. Now the companies don't have to think about, okay, what are we actually doing? How are we actually using this AI? Is it ethical? Oh, let the government decide for us because we have a compliance checklist that we can satisfy. That's the issue right there. So the key questions here moving forward, if we want to be ethical with our use of AI We can ask, should we do this? Should we? Who could be harmed? Who benefits? Of course, usually whenever any sort of technology is deployed, there are those who will benefit and there are those who won't benefit from it. There are those who will be harmed. And then who bears the risk? Accountability. If something goes wrong, who do we hold responsible? And then can this decision be justified publicly? If you make a decision to enforce AI or deploy AI And something goes wrong, can you actually defend your reason why you chose to use the AI? Can you do so publicly? These are the key questions that we need to ask ourselves. When AI ethics is involved. I will see you in the next class.