Let's now talk about global governance as far as AI is concerned. And we have what we call the international problem. What is this international problem? Well You have AI been global, it's used all over the world by billions of people, but then its governance is simply national. It's not worldwide. So at the end of the day, you can have companies relocating to simply avoid regulation. You may have a company based in the in the United States if the regulations in the US become too uh intense or too problematic, that company could relocate to a different country or a different continent. And then countries competing for AI investment is basically a race to the bottom. We've talked about this already And then different standards create a compliance burden. You have China with their own standards, you have the United States with their own standards, and then at the end of the day, The companies in China they may be compliant with the Chinese regulations, but they may not be compliant with the US regulations and vice versa. And then US-China competition reduces safety cooperation. They don't want to cooperate, they want to dominate. So how can we expect them to cooperate when it comes to safety when they're trying to uh outdo the other? So the current mechanisms that we have right now, and I'm just gonna be honest with you, these are very, very weak. First, you have the OECD uh AI principles They're basically just recommendations, but they are non-binding. Companies don't have to follow these principles. They're just recommendations. You have UN discussions Honestly, at this point, I think the UN should be dissolved because I don't know what they're good for. Okay. Maybe there's some things they do. I don't know. But when it comes to the most important issues, they never seem to be able to come up with any kind of solutions. They simply show up, they talk, it's slow, no enforcement whatsoever. And then sectoral agreements, we do have them, but they're limited. They are limited. For example, we were having the autonomous weapons talks, but they've been stalled. And it's unlikely that they'll be resumed anytime soon. So, what are the proposed solutions to you know global governance? First of all. How about we have an international AI agency? Kind of like what you have with uh nuclear power, nuclear energy, which is the of course the IAEA. So basically, this particular agency or body they will set the standards, they will inspect, and they will verify. Sounds good, right? But unfortunately, we do have challenges in them in that we have severity concerns. And of course, who controls it? Obviously, whoever controls this AI agency will have all the power. So Who is gonna control this AI agency? And can we trust them to be fair? Can we trust them to not be biased? Can we trust them to not favor one country over the other? Those are the challenges. Another proposed solution is to have the AI Safety Treaty, where we can create some uh binding minimum standards that all countries will have to uh accept. and satisfy the challenge though is of course getting the agreement across all these countries across all these companies and of course the verification Even if one country one company says, Yes, you know, we're going to abide by these standards, how can we verify that they're actually being honest Another proposal is the multi-stakeholder governance. So instead of just a handful of companies or just the government, You will have companies, governments, and of course the civil society all contributing. The challenge though is that you will still have power imbalances. How much will the civil society contribute? Obviously, it's not going to be as much as the companies or the government, so you're still gonna have this imbalance. And then unclear accountability. Now that you're involving basically everybody Who takes responsibility and accountability when something happens? It's not clear. We also have the democratic deficit problem. In addition to the international problem We have the democratic deficit problem where AI governance happens without any kind of democratic input. What are the problems here? First of all, you have the technical complexity which excludes public participation. Let's be honest, okay. Even if we say, all right, everybody should be able to contribute to the discussion, the development of AI, how many people Truly understand how AI works, how it is built. It is a very, very complex subject. Decisions are often made by engineers, executives, and regulators. The average person out there cannot make any decision about AI when they don't even know how AI works in the first place. And then affected communities are often not at the table. You have global impacts with national and corporate decision making. You have one corporate uh a company or one nation making a decision That affects everybody globally. These are the problems. So, what are the proposed solutions to the democratic deficit uh challenge? First of all, Citizen assembles on AI. Assemblies on AI. So you will have randomly selected citizens. They'll be educated on the issue. So we'll try to bring them up to speed. And then they'll be able to make deliberate and also make recommendations. It's actually right now been experimented in the UK and in Denmark. So we'll see how that goes. Another solution is the participatory technology assessment. Now, what is this? Basically, you'll have a public consultation. in the development of the technology. So this will lead to upstream engagement before deployment. The challenges here though is that How much of a meaningful contribution can we actually get from the public? You know, most of them are just say, hey, you know, I participated. Without actually offering anything tangible or useful. A lot of the public might end up just saying nonsense or contributing nonsense that would actually go or can be used in the development of the AI. Another solution, another proposed solution is the democratic oversight of AI company. So all you'll have here is that you'll have worker representation on the boards, which is good. User councils with real power. So now we'll have councils that can actually influence decisions. And of course they will have the public benefit corporation structures. All right And that's basically the solutions, the proposed solutions for the democratic deficits. And of course, we also talked about the international problem. as well as the proposed solutions. So which one of these solutions do you think is best for the international problem? And which one of these solutions do you think is best for the democratic deficit challenge? I will see you in the next class.