Let's talk about the human AI collaboration and augmentation. Now, obviously, there are a lot of people who are in full support with the introduction and use of AI. And the general narrative here is that AI isn't here to replace us. No, no, no, no. AI is simply a tool. To improve our productivity. AI is a tool that can support the decisions that we make. AI is more of a collaborator than something that's going to replace us. Now in many fields this is quite true actually if you look at fields like software uh development, programming Medical diagnostics, cybersecurity, security monitoring. Yes, in these fields we have seen AI being used as a collaborator, as a productivity booster that is not in doubt. Unfortunately, though, we have seen many situations where slowly but surely Augmentation becomes delegation. Now, what do I mean by this? See, in augmentation, in real augmentation Humans are still in full control. It is the humans who make the central decisions. It's the humans who make the final decisions, right? The AI could support Whatever decisions that they make, the AI could provide recommendations. But at the heart of it all, it is still going to be the human who is in full control. The human can choose to accept the recommendation of the AI. They can choose to uh ignore the recommendation of the AI or even override the decision. So the humans are still in full control. But in delegation Now it is the AI that actually makes the final decision. And even if there is some sort of a human review, it's very often symbolic. It's now the AI That's fully responsible for whatever decisions that are made. And the question you might have here is: well, why is it that that seems to occur? It all seems kind of natural, like you know, gradually, gradually, gradually We've gone from AI being this collaborative tool to now being this tool that actually makes the decisions. Why? Several reasons, okay. First of all The outputs provided by AI tends to be very authoritative. I mean, how many times have you gone to cloud or Gemini or ChatGPT and you ask it a question and then you see it thinking And it's pulling all this information, all these facts from thousands of websites, and then it gives you this uh answer in a very authoritative tone. Yeah, you you know many times we don't even challenge what the AI says. We just say, you know what? I think the AI might be correct because it has pulled this information. From all these sources, this is an AI that's been trained with you know millions and millions of data sets. Who am I to argue against it? Right, so AI outputs tend to be very, very authoritative, but there's also the issue with the time pressure, right? Imagine like an employee who has to complete some sort of project for the company and obviously the use of AI might be encouraged. So in order for that employee to finish the project on time because of time pressure They might just use AI to do their research. The AI gives them the information, the data, and they don't have the time to actually make sure that the output made by the AI is actually factually correct. And then the third and perhaps the biggest reason why delegation occurs is because in many organizations the work culture Tends to reward employees who go with the recommendation of the AI and actually punish those who go against it. What do I mean by this? Let me let me explain. Let me give you a scenario, right? Imagine, for example, we have some financial company, right There's a financial analyst who decided to go with option A to buy something on behalf of the company, right? But the AI recommended option B Now, if it turns out that option A was actually the wrong decision and B was the better option, obviously the employees' bosses will criticize him heavily, saying, Look. Even the AI said option B. Why did you go with option A? Do you think you know more than the AI? Right? So the employee will receive the full blame. But what if the employee had gone with the AI's recommendation for option B and eventually option B was actually the wrong choice Yes, the company might still blame the employees saying, hey, you know, why did you go with the recommendation of the of the AI? But at least in that particular kind of scenario, the employee can say, look You recommended we use this particular AI. I simply went with the recommendations of the AI. So part of the blame could be shifted towards the AI. So when other employees see this, they start thinking, you know what? From this point on, I'm just gonna go with whatever the AI tells me to do. If anything goes wrong, at least I can put the blame on you know ChatGPT or Claude, right? And so delegation leads to several other issues, okay One is the fact that gradually people start becoming over reliant on AI and it can reduce uh human expertise. It can also weaken our ability to judge effectively. Imagine if constantly we're simply delegating more and more responsibilities towards AI Let the AI make the decision, let the AI decide. Over time, we're going to lose our abilities to actually make effective judgments. on our own. So what are the ethical conditions for genuine collaboration with AI? First of all, uh humans must retain full authority and should be able to reject any outputs made by the AI and they shouldn't be punished as well. No employee should be punished by the boss. simply because they chose to ignore or override the recommendation made by the AI. And then second, humans must understand That AI cannot do everything. There are certain things AI can do, and there are certain things AI cannot do. So when we understand this, we know that okay, it's not everything that we can delegate to the AI. There are certain things that we as humans have to do on our own. And then performance metrics don't enforce compliance. Okay. Organizations Should not measure the effectiveness or the performance of their employees based on the number of times they agreed or disagreed with the AI. So at the end of the day Augmentation in itself isn't just ethical by default. It's only ethical when power Understanding and accountability are all aligned. I will see you in the next class.