So let's talk real quick about explainability and interpretability. Now, interpretability, I'm gonna have a hard time pronouncing that word. Uh interpretability refers to how naturally understandable a model is. Do we actually understand how this model acts and how or why it made certain decisions? So basically Simple-based rule simple rule-based systems are very often highly interpretable because they're not that complex. Linear models, moderately interpretable, however Deep neural networks very often have low interpretability. So interpretability is really about structure. That's all it's concerned about. Now, explainability, on the other hand, refers to the ability to provide human understandable decisions or reasons. I'm sorry, understandable uh reasons for a specific decision. Can we as humans do we actually understand why a decision was made? That's what explainability is concerned with. So it involves post hoc explanations, feature important summaries, decision rationales presented in plain language. Again, that's the whole point of being able to explain something Humans can understand it if it's presented in plain language. So explainability is about communication, not model simplicity. Interpretability is really about how complex the system might be. Explainability is really about the communication. Do we understand why this model made that decision? So to compare both, interpretability is built into the model. How complex it is, how simple it is Structural clarity and then how it actually works. That's what interpretability is concerned with. Explainability is often added after. It's all about the narrative, clarity, and then why this decision. So interpretability is how does this model work Explainability is about why it made that decision. So the fundamental trade-off here is that typically The most accurate models, the most advanced, the most complex models are least explainable, but the most explainable models are typically less accurate and can perform advanced or sophisticated tasks. And then it's not a technical limitation to solve. It's not like, oh, we need to figure out a way how we can build these very complex systems. that can perform complex tasks but then will also be very easy to explain. It that's not gonna happen. So it's inherent in how complex systems work. It's a complex system, so it's going to be complicated to explain how it actually works. So you must choose between performance or transparency. The more transparent a model is, the more you can explain why it made certain kinds of decisions, the less likely it's going to be sophisticated. And then if you're all about performance, I want the most complicated, the most you know, highly advanced. model is gonna be less transparent. That's typically the trade-off here. So the ethical inside here is that a system may be accurate but on ethical If it cannot provide explanations that affected individuals can understand. Yes, it may make accurate decisions, it may be very sophisticated and all that But if it can explain why it made a decision, then it's still unethical at the end of the day. I will see you in the next class.