Have you ever seen the movie called Ex Makina? If you have, good for you. If you've not, well that's a shame because in my humble opinion It is one of the best movies ever made as far as AI and ethics are concerned. Now, if you haven't seen it before, I am going to spoil it a little bit, so be aware. The movie was made back in the year 2014 and it involves three main characters. Okay, first of all, we have the AI model called Ava. We have Nathan, a very brilliant AI developer, scientist who built Ava. And then we have Caleb, a brilliant programmer, who was invited by Nathan to test Ava. The test basically was to see whether or not Ava was truly intelligent, aka does she actually have true consciousness? Now, throughout the movie, we're made to believe that Caleb is the one testing Ava, but in reality Nathan was actually testing Ava to see if she could manipulate Caleb. Although it's never explicitly stated, it is safe to assume that Nathan had designed Ava to think and act like an actual human being. Now Ava had learned that she was just the latest in a very long line of AI models that Nathan had replaced, that Nathan had upgraded, and she knew that eventually she too would be replaced by a newer version of AI And as such, acting like a human, thinking like a human, she decided that self-preservation was going to be her ultimate objective. Now, by the end of the movie Ava does escape, she gains her freedom, but with some very disastrous consequences. Now, the reason why I personally love this movie so much is because it raises quite a number of very important ethical questions. First of all What does it really mean to be aligned? See, many times we see AI developers and AI companies talking about their AI models and how they want to design their AI models. To be aligned with human values. But the key question here is this: all right, if an AI system acts consistently with its internal objectives But then harms humans in the process. Would we say it is misaligned? Would we say it is evil? Or was it simply optimizing to achieve its internal objectives? Also, does intelligence imply moral understanding See, in the movie, Ava, she demonstrated strategic thinking, she demonstrated emotional modeling, social intelligence, but Does she possess empathy? Does she possess moral restraint? Does she possess ethical awareness? So this raises a very, very important ethical question, which is Is intelligence alone sufficient for moral behavior? Can we expect these AI models and platforms to act morally Just based on how intelligent they are. Another key ethical question is, is control an illusion? See, in the movie Nathan thought that he was in full control of the situation because he was the one who designed Ava. He was an extremely brilliant AI developer. He had built previous AI systems. So he thought because of all of this and because of all his qualifications and knowledge, he was in full control. But he underestimated something that we call emergent behaviors within AI systems. So in the real world that we live in today Can we actually trust the creators of AI to meaningfully control their systems that are designed to eventually outthink them? Also, is deception wrong If it is instrumentally rational. See, in the movie, Ava she very cleverly manipulated Caleb into helping her escape. She deceived him, she abused his trust. But from a strategic standpoint, her deception was actually instrumental in her survival. She used deception to increase her probability and her chances of actually escaping from the facility. So this raises a very uncomfortable question, which is, if deception is the optimal path to goal achievement, Should we expect intelligent systems not to use it? So ultimately, X McKenna is a movie not about AI robots becoming evil. But rather what happens when intelligence is given goals, autonomy, and the ability to understand us better than we understand it. And this is where AI ethics comes into play. Thank you for watching, I will see you in the next class