Let's now round up this module by talking about the key governance debates. And the very first one here will be innovation or precaution. Now you have the approach in the US, which is typically innovation first, where they will say, hey, you know what, let the technology develop and whatever harms or risks that emerge, we will handle them. So the main benefit here is that it avoids stifling beneficial innovation and basically they're saying, hey, let's trust the market. If people decide that they like using this particular AI product, despite the risks associated with it, then that's for them to decide, right? So they're gonna let the markets decide on what is good or what is bad. But if you look at the precautionary approach, which is typically the EU tendency, they say, hey, we need regulation before the harms are materialized So they have the better safe than sorry approach. So you have a democratic deliberation before deployment. Now, I do have a question for you. Who do you think is doing it better? Is false positive where you will have over regulating beneficial AI, which is more likely in the EU? Is that better or worse than the false negative that you have under regulation of harmful AI in the US? So which one do you think is better? Yeah, you will have the over-regulation of beneficial AI or you have the under-regulation of harmful AI. Next debate is centralization or decentralization of power. So when it comes to centralization where you have much fewer powerful systems The benefits here is that they'll be easier to regulate and monitor because they are very, very few. They can enforce safety standards. And you also have the economies of scale in safety research The risk though is that at the end of the day, you have power, all the power concentrated in this handful of companies, and you also have single points of failure. Now, from the decentralization perspective, where you have uh much more smaller systems, you'll have democratic access. You will have innovation from diverse sources, and you also have resilience in that you no longer have a single point of filial because you have so many smaller systems. The problem though is that because you have so much more smaller systems, is going to be much harder to govern and misuse will be more likely. We also have the national security versus openness debate. So you have this tension between people saying, hey, you know, research for AI should be open and we should have international collaboration. It's going to be better for science and safety. But then you also have the national security concerns. So you have the export controls and secrecy. You'll have the United States saying, hey We don't want to share our data. We don't want to share our research with China because hey, China in the future might misuse it against us. And then China took us to say the exact same thing about the US. So the current trend right now in the world is that you have increasing restrictions. So as an example, you now have export controls on AI chips from you know US to China. You have visa restrictions on researchers. And you also have the classification of AI research. So I do have two questions for you. Does scrutinization or does securization make us safer or less safe? And also, is it possible? Can we have international cooperation on safety while competing on capabilities? Is that possible? You have companies uh internationally cooperating, but at the same time they're also competing. Is that possible? I don't know. So I'm gonna round this up by asking you four main questions. Okay, the first one will involve legitimate authority. Now, who should have the power to decide how AI is developed and deployed? Is it the engineers, companies, governments, citizens? And when you get your answer, tell me why. Ask yourself why. Why should this particular body or person have the power to decide how AI is developed and deployed? Second question will involve corporate power. Are AI companies too powerful? What do you think? Should we break them up? Should they be nationalized, heavily regulated, or left largely alone? What do you think? And what criteria should guide this particular decision? Third question will involve the regulatory trade-offs. So I'm gonna ask you, would you prefer Over regulation that will slow the development of beneficial AI, or would you prefer under regulation Which, while promoting beneficial AI, might also lead to serious uh harms and risks. And then how certain do you need to be about risks before regulating? That's a very, very important question. How certain do you need to be about risks before regulating? When should regulation become a thing? When should we say, hey, you know what? I think it's time we begin to regulate our AI, the deployment of this AI. What risks need to be present before we determine that regulation should be a thin? And then the final question will involve the democratic input. How can non-experts meaningfully participate in AI governance decisions? How? We all know fully well that most non-experts are non-experts, they're not experts in the in in in the field of AI. But we know that we also need the input because they also need to be at the table. We can't let the concentration and development of AI just be restricted to a handful of companies and people, right? So Should we even allow non-experts to participate in AI governance? Or should technical decisions be left to the experts? What do you think? So four questions for you, thank you for watching. I will see you in the next class