Now there is a saying that those who fail to learn from history are doomed to repeat the same mistakes. Now when it comes to AI, its use, its deployment, its development As a disruptive technology, it is important for us to take a look at previous disruptive technologies and see what we can learn from them. Now, in this lecture, I'm gonna take two disruptive technologies into consideration. One would be nuclear energy, and the second would be social media. One thing we have noticed when it comes to these disruptive technologies is that they tend to follow a particular kind of Pattern right first of all, you'll have the initial honeymoon phase, the initial excitement. Oh, this new technology is gonna change the world, it's gonna bring about world peace. It's gonna change the way we communicate, the way we trade, and so on. So there will be that initial excitement, right? And then next comes the rapid deployment phase where A lot of people will start using it. You know, people will say, Oh, if you're not using this technology, you'll be left behind, you've got to keep up with the time. So, more and more people start to use that technology And it deploys so quickly that there isn't any sort of regulation or law governing its use. Eventually we may end up discovering negative consequences of using that technology Something catastrophic might happen. And then comes the law, the regulation. Governments will now have to step in and say, okay, in order to use this technology We need to do this, we need to do that to avoid any more damage. Now, when it comes to nuclear energy, We were promised lots of things, right? We were told that oh nuclear energy is gonna bring about you know clean energy. We're not gonna have to rely on uh energy that can impact our environment because nuclear energy is gonna be clean. It's gonna result in medical breakthroughs as well. And yes, we we do have people do use nuclear power. for you know good things but we've also gotten disasters nuclear disasters you look at three mile island Chernobyl and of course Fukushima We've had nuclear disasters. And there's also the nuclear arms race as well. You have the big players, the United States, Russia, China. There's always that threat Of a nuclear war. And we all know that we've seen the consequences of nuclear bombs being dropped in Japan, in uh Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Now we have that constant threat that If World War III breaks out, it might end with the extinction of the human race because of nuclear energy or nuclear power. So there are three critical lessons we can learn from nuclear energy when it comes to AI. One is the fact that dual use is unavoidable. I don't care how ethical or what the intent behind a particular technology is, it can always be misused. Yes, you can use technology for good things, but you can also use it for bad things as well. Speaking of the AI that we have today, we could use AI to conduct fantastic research that could end up leading to us solving or Creating cure for different kinds of diseases. But at the same time, the same AI could be used to conduct some research that can be used to develop chemical weapons that can kill people. So dual use is unavoidable. Second is that existential risks require different thinking. See, if you're talking about some very simple kind of technology that has a low impact, yes, it's perfectly fine for the developers of that technology to make mistakes. It's perfectly fine for us, the users, to make mistakes because hey No serious harm has been done. We can learn from the mistakes and move on. When it comes to technologies, That can result in existential threats like AI possibly in the future, advanced AI in the future, it requires a different type of thinking. We need to be more proactive in how we create this technology how it's deployed, how it is used, it requires different thinking from just normal kinds of technology. And then third is that scientists will bear responsibility. If you've seen the movie or you know the story of Oppenheimer, you know, the man responsible for creating the nuclear bombs, when the bombs were dropped in Japan, he famously said, I have become death, the destroyer of worlds And you have that moral burden, like wow, I am the person who created this technology. That's now being used for bad things, right? It has such negative consequences. So scientists have to keep in mind, AI scientists have to keep in mind that They can't just create a I and then just walk away. They need to think about the potential consequences On how the AI they create is being used. They do have that moral obligation. Now let's move on to social media. Now, I'm old enough to remember the good old days of uh high-five and my space, and then out of nowhere Facebook came in and I believe shortly after Twitter was introduced, right? It was the age of you know social media. Social media was born and I remember back then it was really fascinating. You know, I the first time I got on Facebook, after a few days, I was able to connect with some of my old friends from high school, and it was magical. Like, wow You know, you're on Facebook too? Wow, how have you been? You know, it was it was really something and don't get me wrong, it was it was really really amazing to have this platform Where you could communicate and connect with old friends and family. It was truly magical. But fast forward to the present day, and we now know that Yeah, social media might have more negative effects than positive. Yes, social media has changed the way we communicate, the way we buy things, the way we can market our products. The way we share information, of course, it has its positive sides. But social media has also led to increased levels of depression. social anxiety, you know, especially with like Instagram, right? You do you go on Instagram and you see somebody that you know today during the Bahamas or in the Maldives having the time of their lives And then the next day they're in some very expensive restaurant having dinner. And you're thinking to yourself, wow, I am a loser. Or maybe you're somebody trying to get in the best shape of your whole life. You know, you've been going to the gym, you've been eating well And you do have an above average physic, but then you go on Instagram and then you see all these fitness models, you know, with like six-pack abs and huge biceps, and you're thinking to yourself, wow. I'm just I'm not good enough. I gotta work harder. You know, so social media we all know has led to depression, social anxiety, and making people feel like they're not good enough. And of course, also the spread of misinformation. We all know that social media has been used to spread lies, propaganda. It's what happens. And of course, privacy concerns as well. We now have governments spying on the social media usage of their citizens. We have governments like in the UK as an example. We have the police showing up. at the doorsteps of citizens because they posted something problematic on social media that's also become another consequence of the use of social media. So what exactly can we learn from an AI's perspective when it comes to social media? Well the first thing we can learn is that business models will determine the impacts See how AI technology will make money will largely determine what it is that it does If a company believes that you know what, if our AI technology can do this and we can make lots of money from that, then that's what our AI is going to do. So we need to take into consideration that these companies that develop AI, the use of the AI must align with human welfare. And not just their profit margins. Second is that scale can amplify everything. Just like with social media, AI is now being used by millions of people around the world. Say for example ChatGPT, probably the most popular AI model, right? Any slight change to how ChatGPT produces its output or how it processes data can affect millions of people that are currently using it. Third is that self-regulation does not work. We can't let these AI developers and companies regulate themselves or grade their own homework instead, we need third parties to ensure oversight and accountability. And fourth is that by the time problems obvious it may already be too late. Right now we're still in that sort of you know honeymoon phase of using AI and for the most part we're pretty much excited. But who knows, maybe ten years from now, we might end up realizing that you know what AI, its creation, its deployment, its use has actually brought about more negative consequences than positive. So to give you a quick roundup, most emerging technologies typically have this particular kind of phase, the initial excitement, rapid deployment. That exceeds government oversight or regulation. And then some sort of harm comes in, some damage is done, and then comes in the government regulations and the law governing the use of that technology. So With the use of AI, I fear that right now we're currently in the mass deployment phase where more and more and more people are using AI And I fear that eventually something really negative is gonna happen. We we've had some negative, you know, use of AI, but on much limited scales And I fear that eventually something massive might actually happen and then governments around the world will now step in and begin to create their own regulations on the use of AI. So only time will tell We'll see how it goes. I will see you in the next class.