Okay, so we're getting to the meat and potatoes of this course as far as professional ethics is concerned. We're talking about navigating ethical dilemmas at work. Alright. How many times have you heard uh you know phrases like this before? Uh, you know, we'll fix it later. It's not illegal, you know, we need to hit a deadline. Our competitors are already doing this. The first one will fix it later. I've heard this back in my days as an IT engineer. Okay. I heard this quite a few times, all right. We deploy a particular kind of solution. We know it's not Optimal, we know that it's it's not necessarily the best from an ethical perspective, but hey, don't worry, it's just temporary. We will fix it later, and of course, we never actually do, right? It's not illegal. Hey, I mean it may not be ethically correct. It may not be moral, but is it against the law? No. So yeah, we can do it, right? We need to heat our deadline. This is this is a classic one, right? Typically you might have like the manager or the boss that says, hey, look guys. We gotta hit our deadline, okay? The executive, the CEO demands that we get this thing done by Friday. Do whatever it takes to get it done, right? And then, of course, our competitors are already doing this, right? Anthropic is about to release their latest uh AI model. And we need to release ours before them because if they release theirs before ours, they will capture that market. And uh yeah, our competitors are doing it, you know, and they're not nobody's saying anything against them. The government isn't saying anything against them. So why don't we as well just do the exact same thing? We need to be competitive, right? So You know, these kinds of ethical dilemmas often appear in these particular kinds of phrases. Okay, I'm pretty sure you must have heard this uh quite a few times before. So What are the common workplace ethical dilemmas as far as AI specifically is concerned? The very first one would be deploying a model you know that has bias. Either from the data that it was trained with or who knows, maybe even the political slash social opinions of the developers themselves, who knows, right? And then suppressing internal finish metrics, launching without sufficient testing. Again, our competitors have launched the latest AI model We need to launch ours as quickly as possible. Otherwise, they're going to monopolize that market. So, hey, forget about safety, forget about ethics, get that AI model out there as quickly as possible, right? And then using questionable questionable data sources. Not all data is equal. Okay. You can have good data, you can have bad data, you can have unbiased data, and you can have data that is heavily biased. And then of course being asked to remove transparency disclosures. These are the typical ethical dilemmas at the workplace as far as AI is concerned. Now We cannot underestimate the influence or the impact of structural pressures, basically, workplace culture, right? You have incentive systems that drive behavior. Hey, you know, if we can get this thing done, we're gonna get a fat big you know paycheck. They're not gonna question how we got it done, just as long as we get it done. So hey I need that paycheck. I want to go on a vacation. You know, my wife just gave birth to twins. I need to make more money. And then the rest is history, right? Performance metrics influence decisions as well. We know that, okay, well. If we're gonna deploy this AI, it's going to increase productivity. And uh, you know, who cares if it's not ethically moral or whatever it is, you know Hey, our performance is is is is is growing, right? It's our performance is is increasing. So therefore, let's just go ahead and use the AI, right? Of course, bonuses tied to growth may also conflict uh with safety. So, what is the professional strategy when you're faced with an ethical dilemma at your place of work? First thing you want to do is you want to ask clarifying questions in writing. Basically, don't make any assumptions. Don't think or feel. Now Make sure that you fully understand what the situation is, and you want to do it in writing for documentation purposes. And then frame concerns around business risk. You will notice I added two asterics there. That was not a mistake. That was not a typo. This is easily the most important thing that you should always do. Why? See, I learned this back in my days as a cybersecurity manager You know, back then I was still very naive. Okay. I used to think that, well, just because I care about cybersecurity, I believe that the executives, the shareholders, the company bosses, they too should care about cybersecurity just as passionately as I do. But I got a very rude awakening when I discovered that hey, they don't care about cybersecurity. For them The most important thing is is the business generating revenue? Are they cutting costs? And are they maximizing profits? That's all the executive executives care about. They don't care about your ethics. They don't care about your little bubble of, you know, uh financial no not financial, but cybersecurity or whatever it is that you may be concerned with, okay? Basically, the point I'm trying to make here is that the most important thing for them, the people who actually have the power to make decisions is the business itself So when you're trying to frame your concerns, don't come at them from your own personal moral compass. Oh, I feel like this. No, no, no, no, no, no. Bring the business into the discussion, okay? Let them know that hey, if we go ahead and this happens Our business could lose reputation, it could list lead to a drop in profit. We may even have to pay Uh certain kinds of fines because we we we we we we we we abuse this particular regulation or this particular framework we didn't apply The government might hit us with the fine. So try to frame things around the business that will grab the attention of those that can that can actually make the important decisions. So very, very, very, very important. Document your objections again. Documentation very, very important. Escalate gradually and formally. Don't go above your boss. Your boss isn't gonna like it. Alright, so you can start with your immediate boss. Okay. And if he or she doesn't do anything about it, then you can move to the next person. But do it gradually and formally. And of course, like I said, avoid emotional framing. Okay. It's not about your emotions. It's not about what you think is ethical or what is moral or immoral. Avoid all of that, okay? Take your emotions out of the equation. Ethical communication must be strategic, not reactive. Alright, when you're trying to come at it from an ethical perspective, always be strategic in your thoughts and in things that you say. Be strategic, not reactive, and also don't be emotional about it. That's it. We will talk about uh speaking up, uh, which is a very, very tough thing to do. I will talk about that in the very next uh lecture. I will see you in the next class