So now let's talk about regulatory approaches for AI development. And you know, you may have the question of why do we need to regulate AI? Well, there's a whole bunch of reasons First of all, we do have the externalities where companies don't bear full costs of harm or take full responsibility or accountability. Whenever harm occurs through the use of AI. You also have the information asymmetry problem where users end up using AI. Without actually fully understanding what the risks are, you have your power imbalances where individuals and users cannot negotiate with the platforms. Basically, whatever this platform is put out for you, that's what you're going to use. And of course, race to the bottom, competition undermines safety. We already talked about this in the previous uh lesson So, generally speaking, there are four regulatory models for AI. We have self-regulation, sectoral regulation, horizontal regulation, which is predominantly in the EU, it's the EU AI Act. And then adaptive regulation. Let's take a look at them one by one, starting off with self-regulation. So uh over here The industry will develop its own standards and its ethic boards. You know, they'll set the best practices. Now, there are some pros to this. It's of course very, very, very flexible. It adapts very, very quickly. You have the industry expertise because you have the AI people themselves regulating. You have less bureaucratic burden. Of course you're not involving the government in here. It's also innovation friendly. These are some strong pros. Unfortunately though, well, when you have the AI industries regulating themselves, that's the same as the Fox Garden, the hen house, right? So There's gonna be minimal enforcement. Uh PL of a substance at this point, okay? They're not really gonna regulate themselves, let's be honest. In here, they will just Put to paper and say, hey, yes, you know, we're regulating ourselves, we're making sure that, you know, the AI it's safe, you know, we're respecting the privacy Of our users, and we can verify, you know, we've checked ourselves, we've verified that we're doing the right thing. Come on, right? And then of course, ways to bottom companies that ignore standards gain advantage. All right. So Those are the cons with self-regulation, and I personally don't support self-regulation. Secondly, you have the sectoral regulation. Now, this is where you will have The existing regulators addressing AI in their own domain. So the AI regulation it is concentrated on specific uh sectors, right? So, as an example, you know, you have the FDA for medical AI. The pros here is that you will have domain expertise. It uses existing regulatory infrastructure so it can be quick. And then of course it is targeted to specific risks because again, we're not talking about AI in general. We're talking about the use of AI in particular specific fields. The cons though are that you now have a fragmented approach. What do I mean by this? Okay, say for example, you have a company that's developed uh let's say some sort of a healthy uh wellness app AI right now let's assume that this AI app for example it is gonna give medical advice So you may have some sort of you know FDA jurisdiction. Obviously, this app most likely will call it personal information because it wants to know you know, the name, the age of the user, the history of, you know, sicknesses or diseases, things like that. So now you have privacy concerns. It may provide mental health support as well. It may sell supplements, which is of course a different FDA division. So at the end of the day, this single app, even though it's in the medical field There might be different regulatory bodies that might be attached to this one single app. And because of this, right now you have all these regulatory bodies that don't have the clear full picture and one regulatory body's uh conditions or requirements for regulation might differ from another one. So at the end of the day, it might be impossible for this one app to satisfy all regulatory requirements in all these divisions. So that's what I mean by a fragmented approach. And then, of course, the regulators themselves may lack AI expertise. You will also have gaps where the AI doesn't fit into existing categories. Right now, as it is, regulators will have their categories for different types of AI. What happens when a new type of AI is created that doesn't fit into any one of the pre-existing categories? Now you have gaps and you have issues And then of course it's also slow to adapt to new AI capabilities. Next is the horizon or horizontal regulation from the EU. So this is a comprehensive AI-specific law with strict rules for AI's use that they deem to be high risk And then of course minimal for low risk. So the advantage here is that it is very, very comprehensive. It is technology-specific expertise which can be developed. And then you have clear rules across all sectors. The problem with this kind of approach is that you have the risk of over-regulation, which may end up stifling innovation. They may think that oh This AI is used, it's too high risk, so now they're gonna apply plenty of regulations and it may stifle the innovation of that AI, right? And then of course difficult to keep pace with technology Maybe too broad or too narrow, and then of course the enforcement challenges. These are the cons with the horizontal regulation. But now I present to you arguably the best, but not necessarily the best. What do I mean? Adaptive regulation. So over here, you will have regulatory sandboxes with continuous monitoring. So basically It balances innovation with safety because it will learn from real-world deployment. You deploy the AI, it's out there, it's been used, and you observe it. Okay, what are the issues? Oh, we notice there's a problem here, there's a challenge there. They go back and they improve the AI. So it's constantly trying to balance innovation, the use of that AI with safety. And then of course it adapts to technological change. So this is fantastic. Unfortunately, though, it is resource intensive. Because you're constantly monitoring the use of AI, you're constantly adapting, it's gonna use resources, and because of this, you have unequal access. This kind of regulation will only benefit companies that have you know large amounts of funding, large amounts of money to spend on this particular kind of regulation. And smaller companies with limited resources will not be able to compete. Now, I want to give you a quick geographic comparison of China, US, and the EU. In the US right now, when it comes to regulations, you have LightTorch, Sectoral, Innovation First. In the EU, you have the comprehensive regulation precautionary principle. And then in China, you have state directed, which is focused on stability and control. So that's kind of like a rough comparison of these three different regions. And then, of course, we also have challenges when it comes to the enforcement of these regulations. First of all, you have the algorithmic transparency challenge. Should companies explain the decisions? You have those who say yes, they should explain the decisions for accountability. So that we can identify bias if it exists. And then, of course, to enforce democratic oversight. There are those who argue against it because guess what? Companies may end up leaking their trade secrets, it might be a technical impossibility, and of course, gaming risk. When you have companies explaining their decisions, explaining how the AI is built, how it was developed, you may have other people who might end up misusing that information. And then you also have the liability framework challenge. Who pays when the AI causes harm? There are different options in here. You may have the developer liability. So This will encourage safety if you're gonna hold the developers liable for any kind of harm. Of course, it will motivate them to take safety very, very seriously. But the downside is that it may slow innovation. I personally would prefer this particular option. Okay. Let's slow down the creation of AI. Let's make sure it's actually safe before we deploy. Or we could also have the users or developers liability. So those who use AI, you're held responsible for whatever harm that occurs, right? And then shared liability Here is another option. So basically a portion based on control and forceability. And then strict liability. No need to prove negligence. Or you may also have the no-fault insurance scheme. So these are different options for the liability framework. My personal favorite will be, of course, the developer liability. And then of course you have the pre-deployment testing where the people say, well, before AI is deployed, why don't we make sure That these AI companies fully test the use of the AI before it's the plug kind of like the FDA, right? You have this drug profile process. That takes time. And before a drug is approved by the FDA, they're gonna make sure that drug is actually safe to use. So the problem here is that when it comes to AI, this particular kind of proposal is very very challenging because first of all, you have infinite possible imputes, right? There are so many things that can happen in the real world that it is impossible to uh test for every possible scenario. It's impossible. And then deployment context matters as well. Emergent behaviors. We have AI systems that are constantly emerging, that are continuously learning. So at the end of the day It's impossible to uh test for every possible scenario. It's not it's not uh mathematically or even realistically possible. So another challenge is the auditing and certification, right? So they're saying, hey, how about we have third party audit the AI systems? The benefits of this is that you'll have independent verification. So instead of one company verifying the use of their own AI, you'll have a third party. So a third in the third party that's independent. So you'll have independent verification. And then standardized assessments, okay? We can create assessments that are standardized across the industry. So all these AI companies will have to satisfy the exact same assessments. And then, of course, we'll have the market for safety and ethics expertise. The cons though with this particular proposal is that who audits? Who is actually going to do the auditing? Will they be fair and biased in their auditing? And then what standards are we measuring for exactly? What are the standards? Metrics, is it for fairness, for safety? Who knows? And then access to proprietary systems. Now you have third parties that have access to proprietary systems for companies. Will the companies be comfortable with that? And then is it going to be continuous or will it be a single one-time audit? So these are some other challenges involved with our regulations for AI. So that's it for the video. Think of watching I will see you in the next class