Welcome back. So now let's take a look at the safety research directions. What are the AI scientists and security engineers currently trying to do To improve the robustness. Well, first of all, let's talk about the adversarial robustness. So right now, AI are being trained on adversarial examples to increase resilience, make it more difficult To actually fool or manipulate the AI. So certified defenses with mathematical guarantees, detection of adversarial inputs. However There is this challenge, and this is classic in cybersecurity as well. Okay, we always have this arms race between the good guys and the bad guys, the cybercriminals, the hackers They're always coming up with new inventive ways to launch their attacks. And then the good guys have to keep up with new defenses. So it's always this uh this this arms race between the two. And now we also are working on interpretability and transparency. Basically, we want to understand what neural networks learn and why they make decisions. I do need to point out here that according to some experts in AI, they claim that we can never fully understand why AI would make certain kinds of decisions. But we can do our best to learn as much as possible. And then also the mechanistic interpretability, reverse engineering model internal. So basically, if we can re-invent re- uh re-en re-reverse engineer, The way the AI models think, the way they act, we might be able to understand them better. And then feature visualization, attribution methods, concept-based explanations. So the goal at the end of the day is to enable the bugging. Improve verification and then above all, gain trust. That is the goal of interpretability and transparency. But we also have the formal verification, mathematical proof. That systems satisfy safety properties. We want guarantees, mathematical guarantees. So this would work well for very simple systems. Unfortunately. When we're talking about highly complex, highly advanced AI systems, this is where this could fail. Because again, we're talking about extremely complicated mathematical equations and it gets really, really complex. So It scales poorly for the complex neural networks, but we can also go with the hybrid approach, combining formal methods with ML machine language. Alright. Safe exploration and testing. So, how to test AI systems without real-world harm? We want to be able to test them safely without causing any damage, without causing any harm. And then we can do this through simulation environments, red teaming, controlled deployment. Red teaming, by the way, if you don't know what this is, it's a cybersecurity term. It's basically where you would have People deliberately try to attack the AI system and then look for any kinds of weaknesses or vulnerabilities. And then once those are found, they can patch them up. The challenge here is that simulators are imperfect. Testing can't cover everything. Again, that's one of the biggest issues here. We can test as much as we want, but at the end of the day, we can't account for every possible scenario. And then of course the human AI interaction safety. What this is? What is this? Designing systems that fail gracefully. Clear communication of limitations and uncertainties. Again, we don't want the AI saying it can do something when in fact it can't. We don't want the AI to claim that it is very confident in its answer when it is not. So monitoring and intervention mechanisms, the challenge here is of course automation bias. complacency and of course responsibility gaps. That's basically it for the lesson. This are the few ways how We're trying to improve the robustness of our AI systems. Thank you for watching and of course I will see you in the next class where we will not talk about the alignment problem. I will see you then