Okay, this is the big one, speaking up, whistleblowing, and moral courage Speaking up. Speaking up can be very, very hard. And in fact, me saying it's very, very hard is still an understatement. There's a whole bunch of reasons why people don't speak up. It's not because they're not good people or because they're unethical. It's simply because they fear that the repercussions, the penalties For actually saying something might be very, very severe. I mean, you may have the fear of retaliation. All right? Social isolation. People may not want to talk to you again because they think, oh He thinks he's better than us. Okay. He's the he's the moral you know god or whatever, you know. And then of course career consequences. You may get fired You may get demoted or you might just be ignored for a promotion that you clearly deserve. And then of course financial risk Again, you know, you may have responsibilities at home, you may have a wife, kids, uh your parents, your aging parents, you may need to take care of them, you might have a younger sister or younger brother you need you need to take care of. It can be very, very tough, right? And then loyalty conflicts, you know, your boss is doing something unethical and your boss expects you to be loyal to him or her. And then you go behind the back, you know, it can be very, very, very, very tough, right? So I get it. Okay, I'm not gonna judge anybody for not speaking up. It can be really, really difficult to do so because There is always this thought of you know, even if you speak up, it's not gonna change anything, okay? They're gonna go ahead and do it anyways, right? And you end up looking like a fool. Now, if you do decide to speak up, there's oh whistleblow rather. There's two ways to do this. Okay, two ways two ways to do this, excuse me You can do this either internally or externally and ideally you want to do it internally first. Okay Try to resolve things within your organization. That's typically the very first thing that you should do. You might be surprised. They might say, hey, you know what? You're actually right. Who knows? So first of all, you want to raise the issue to your manager. Again, don't go above your immediate manager. It's not a good thing to do. Go to them. If that's not an option, you may have an ethics hotline, you may have the compliance office, or as a last resort, you may actually have the legal department. Again, try to resolve things internally first. Now, obviously, if this doesn't work out Then you have the external option where you might go to the regulatory bodies, you might go to the media, basically have a public disclosure, go public. It's higher risk, but sometimes necessary. We've seen a whole bunch of whistleblowers in the past, right? They feel like the costs, the risks involved are way too high to just ignore. They tried resolving things internally, nothing was done, and they felt you know what The only thing I can do is to let the public know about what's going on behind the scenes. So moral courage, yeah, you know, it involves accepting, acting rather, despite the risk. You know, there's a very good chance you're not gonna get promoted, you might get fired, you might be ridiculed, you might be shamed, you might be publicly isolated, but regardless of that, you still decide to act It involves protecting the vulnerable stakeholders, and then of course prioritizing long-term integrity Over short-term safety. Again, having moral courage can be very, very difficult. However, I will always say this, okay? If you're going to have moral courage and act on that courage, you need to be strategic and not just reckless. Don't act emotionally. Act logically. So practical guidance for you, alright? You want to act, you want to escalate Before you do this, gather the evidence first. That's always the very, very first step. Gather as much evidence as you can. Consult confidential legal advice as well, right? You may fear uh repercussions, a backlash, so you may want to consider getting some legal advice first. Hey. You talk to the lawyer and say, if I go forward with this, if I try to escalate this and my manager decides to, you know, fire me or demolit me or punish me, can I actually sue them? Like I Will I be able to fight back if something goes wrong, right? And then understand the whistleblower protections as well. If you do intend to go public. With the knowledge. Make sure you understand whatever protections that might be available to you as a whistleblower And then protect your documentation. Again, documentation is very, very, very important. You need to have the evidence. Again, be realistic and not idealistic. This is just my own personal perspective, okay? I'm just giving it to you personally. You know, there's usually uh you know, you have the the the optimist, the the pessimist The idealist, the realist. Very often I prefer to be the realist. I see the world the way it actually is, not the way I want it to be or the way I would hope it is. but how it actually is. Sometimes it is helpful to be optimistic, a few times to be idealistic, and a few times to be pessimistic. Yeah, you know, you do have certain advantages here and there, but More often than not, I'm typically a realist. I want to act realistically. I want to set my expectations realistically. Based on pure logic and evidence, not based on my emotions or what I feel should be or what should happen, right? So That's just my own personal advice to you. Be realistic, be strategic, don't be emotional, and don't be idealistic. I will see you in the next class.