Let's now move on to what is, in my opinion, one of the more fascinating lessons throughout this course. And I'm talking about specification gaming and reward hacking in AI. Now, what exactly is specification gaming? Well, it occurs whenever an AI model system achieves its specified objective in unintended ways. Often by exploiting loopholes. So yes, the AI was able to achieve its objective But the way it did it was uh how do we put it was on ethical, right? So the classic example here would be the boat racing AI. Let's say, for example, you've designed an AI boat to win a race. However, look at the goal. The goal is to win the boat race, but then The metric by which the winner is judged is by who scored the most number of points. Right? So the intended strategy here is that okay The boats will start from point A and go all the way to point E, which would be the finish line. So whoever crosses the finish line first And complete the lapse more quickly would win the race, right? That's what would we would assume. However, the AI discovered that hey, you know what? Since the objective here is to score the most number of points, not necessarily to cross the finish line first, that's what we would assume, but the body realizes that hold on a second If I go in circles, go from point A to point B, and then point B back to point A, point A to point B, point B back to point A, I'm gonna be scoring points. Because I'm getting to these different uh laps, right? So the AI believes that you know what if I go in circles and hit the same bonus targets repeatedly I will score more points than another boat that actually started from point A and got all the way to point E, which would be the finish line, right? So the lesson here is that the specified metric, which is the score. It's not the same as the true gold, which was supposed to be the racing performance. Because objectively the AI was told that hey You win by scoring the most number of points. Not you win by crossing the finish line first. So the AI just assumes that you know what? Okay, my objective here is to score the most number of points that I can. So even though it might end up Scoring the most number of points, it didn't actually finish the uh it didn't cross the finish line. So I'm gonna uh deviate a little bit into this particular thought experiment which is very very fascinating you may have heard of it before it is the paperclip maximizer thought experiment by Nick Bostrom Very very very fascinating. So the third experiment here is that just imagine for a second, okay, we've told an AI robot to maximize paperclip production, all right So, we want our AI just to make paper clips. Let's also assume that the AI is sufficiently capable, it has all the capabilities to maximize the production of paperclips And also, this is its only goal. Again, this is just a thought experiment. This isn't something physical, right? So Two assumptions here, okay. The AI can maximize its ability to uh produce paper clips, and then that is its only goal. Nothing else matters. What do you think would happen? So phase one, you would have the AI robot in the factory, you know, making the paper clips. And then we would think that you know what, that's where it would end, right? I mean the AI robot is making the paper clips effectively. That should be the end of it, right? But nope, you would be wrong. Because in phase two The AI is thinking, you know what? I need to maximize, maximize, bend the keyword here. I need to maximize the production of these paperclips. So what am I gonna do? I'm gonna start acquiring more resources. So it's gonna start mining metal, build new factories, because again, the goal is to maximize paperclip production and it and it has all the capabilities to do so. And then it also improves itself, becomes better at paperclip optimization, and then it starts to eliminate any threats. To the paperclip production. Oh, you want to stop me? Nope, you cannot stop me. My goal is to produce as many paperclips as possible, and you are trying to impede me. I cannot let you stop me That's where it begins to go. And then in phase three, converts all available matter into paper clips. Including humans, carbon-based atoms, we could all be turned into paper clips, including the Earth. Eventually the solo system and of course during this whole time it resists every single attempt to stop it Any threat to the perpetratory production will be stopped. This is classic. You, I'm pretty sure you've seen this kind of story in many Hollywood movies. Of course, I have the image of the Terminator right there. It was also in uh I think the most recent one was Avengers, Age of Ultra. If you've ever watched the movie before, you had this uh I've forgotten the name of the of the of the evil of the evil robot. Okay. Tony Stark, Iron Man, he designed the robot to protect our Earth. from you know from threats but then the AI the robots are ultron ultron yes the ultron Spent a few minutes on social media, I believe, getting the news and then it realized that oh hold on a second uh you humans you're actually a threat to the world You know, you're killing yourselves, you're causing wars, you're causing diseases, you know, you're killing animals and you're polluting the you know the air. You are a threat to to the wall, so I'm gonna eliminate you instead. So it's kind of similar to what we have here, right? Where you we've told the AI that, hey, your job is to maximize the production of paper clips. Maximize the production. The AI thinks, okay, well, you asked me to maximize, so I'm gonna go ahead and maximize, right? Like imagine you being the very last person on earth After this AI has converted all the other human beings into into paperclips, right? You're having this conversation with the AI and you're saying, oh my gosh! Why did you do this? Why did you, you know, kill so many people? And then the AI will say, hey, you know, you told me to maximize the production of the paperclips. Sorry, it's led to the extinction of your of your of your species, but hey, you you told me to maximize the production of the paperclips. So the point here is this, okay? Why this matters is because uh we have this thing called the instrumental convergence. Certain sub-goals are useful for almost any type of goal. As an example, self-preservation So the AI in this case has to protect itself because if something happens to it, it wouldn't be able to produce paper clips. So it can't make paper clips if you're turned off. So the AI is going to make every attempt to ensure that it cannot be turned off. Not because it wants to protect necessarily protect its its its its life But because it knows that oh if I'm turned off I won't be able to achieve my objective reach to maximize the production of paperclips, right? And then resource acquisition as well. So more resources Equals more paper clips. The AI realized that oh, I just need to acquire more resources, I'll make more paper clips. And then self-improvement, better optimization in an attempt to improve the production of paper clips is going to improve itself And then resisting interference. Changing goals reduces paper clips. We cannot change the goals in here. You told me to maximize the potential of paper clips, and that's exactly what I am going to do. And then there is no built-in common sense with AI. The AI doesn't care about what we obviously meant. You know, you know, obviously we would say, well, When we told you to maximize the production of the paper clips, we obviously didn't mean that, hey, you should start converting human beings into paper clips. That's not what we meant. But the AI doesn't know any better The AI doesn't deal with obviously meant no. AI relies on explicit goals. You told me, me the AI, you told me to maximize the production of the paper clips. And that's what I did. Don't blame me for the extinction of your of your of your species of your species, right? So and then also optimization power. The better the AI is at achieving its goals. The more dangerous the misalignment becomes. Again, the more the AI started to get better, started to acquire more resources. The more misaligned it became because now it started threatening the existence of humanity. So, and then the single-minded pursuit. Without additional constraints, goal achievement can overwhelm other considerations. Because again, the AI only had one goal. Your goal is just to maximize the production of paper clips, there were no constraints whatsoever, and because of that, any other sort of you know ethical or safe considerations were totally ignored. So, yes, we know that this isn't realistic, okay? We're not gonna have some paperclip production AI maniac turning humans into paperclips. That's never gonna happen, okay? However, even though it's a thought experiment, it does show some possibilities. It illustrates the fundamental point about optimization, okay? And that Even if this exact scenario is unlikely or impossible, similar dynamics may occur. We may have something like this on a of course on a much, much, much smaller scale But it's still gonna be something like this. And then once AI is sufficiently capable, correcting misalignment may be impossible. Once the once the AI has been trained to act in a certain way. And now it has achieved all the full capabilities of being able to satisfy its objectives. It may become very, very difficult to reprogram it or rewire it. It might be too late. And then it's better to solve alignment before reaching dangerous capability levels. Okay, let's now move on to reward hacking. Now, this occurs when an AI system is able to optimize its reward function exactly as specified. However, it may achieve high measured success, but produce outcomes that might violate the human intent, values, or welfare. As an example, the content moderation AI. We talked about this guy in the previous lesson, right? So let's just assume that instead of you know Maximizing engagement. Now we want the AI to instead reduce harmful content on our platform. Now, how is it measured? Because again, the AI needs to be able to measure its ability to perform its objective, right? So it's measured here by the number of removed posts. We've told the AI that hey obviously if you removed 100 uh posts on Monday, but then you removed 200 posts on the Tuesday. Obviously, you did a much better job on Tuesday because the number of removed posts was double, right? So the reward hack here is that the AI, in an attempt to satisfy its reward signals, it starts to remove posts that are borderline No completely harmless, all in an attempt to increase that number of posts. So the problem here is that they maximized removals It it was able to maximize the removals, but instead of actually improving the safety or context awareness, it ended up removing posts that shouldn't have been removed in the first place. So that's the issue right here. When the AI's metrics are very, very specific number, right? How it goes about achieving that number is anyone's guess. So This is counterintuitive because we as humans would typically assume that hey, if we give the AI good goals, right, good objectives. It's performance or it's a or it's it's the way it goes about achieving those objectives will be also good as well, right? And we also assume that high performance means success. If the AI was able to remove 2000 posts, that's unbelievable. 2,000 handful posts? Not really. And even though this is what we assume, AI instead assumes that reward equals truth. What do I mean by this? Every time the AI removes a post, it gets the reward signal that yes, I have done my job. And because its performance is measured by the number of posts it has removed, it automatically assumes that, hey, if I remove this particular Post and I get my reward. That is the truth. I've actually done a good thing because I am getting the rewards. I am removing the the posts, right? And then metrics equals reality That's all the AI knows. What are my objectives? These are the metrics. Okay. This right now, that is its reality. For us as humans, metrics is just part of our reality. For the AI, metrics is all its reality. That's all it knows. I must remove number of posts. I will remove number of posts. That's all it knows, nothing more. So reward hacking ends up exposing the gap between what we value and what we measure. That's where this whole reward hacking comes in. What we actually value might be different from what we actually measure. So the proxy problem. This is where this is the the heart of the issue right here. Reward functions, okay, are always simplifications. Approximations, incomplete representations of values. As an example, hey, we want to increase engagement. We want to improve efficiency. We want to improve accuracy. We want to improve the number of clicks. But yes, even though we have these metrics, even though we have these things that we can measure. It doesn't always equal equal what our intended purposes were. Engagement is not the same thing as well-being. Yes, you might increase engagement on your social media platform, but what about the well-being of the users? They may become more angry, more toxic as a result. Accuracy. Oh, you want to improve the accuracy of you know of of of the people you give out loans to. Okay, but at the end of the day. In an attempt to be very accurate, you may end up unfairly targeting certain kinds of people just because they happen to belong to the wrong group. And then clicks isn't the same thing as truth. Yes, the AI knows, okay, well, I need to improve the number of clicks. So guess what? I'm gonna start uh promoting uh misinformation and conspiracy theories all in an in an attempt to increase the number of clicks So that's the issue right here. Reward functions are always very s you know it's simplifications, approximations, and yet at the end of the day, AI systems they treat proxies as absolute objectives. That's the problem right there. The AI doesn't know anything about values or what we think should be happening. All it knows, hey, these are my metrics, these are my proxies, and that's all I care about. So Why do we miss this? Why does this happen? It's simply because we as humans on a subconscious level we just assume common sense. Well obviously when we said you should maximize the production of paper clips, we obviously didn't mean you should you know start kidnapping humans and converting them into paper clips, right? So we subconsciously feel in common sense, social norms, what is right, what is wrong, what is tolerable, what is intolerable, and then moral restraint as well. AI doesn't. AI doesn't know anything about common sense. AI doesn't think. AI doesn't know anything about your social norms. It doesn't know. So we want a hacking occurs when human intuition silently compensates for the missing ethics. The ethical issues involved with uh specification gaming and what hacking. First of all, of course, harm without malice. At the end of the day We need to remind ourselves that the AI doesn't intend to commit any malice or commit any harm. It doesn't know how to do so, or at least it doesn't intend to do so. All it knows is that, hey, I have my objectives and I'm going to accomplish them one way or the other. Responsibility becomes diffuse When something goes wrong, well, what happens? The engineers blame the specific specification. The managers might blame the model. The institutions, the organizations, they might blame the you know the emergent behavior. Nobody takes full accountability And then of course scaling amplifies moral error. We know that with AI it can scale massively. And when you have errors, guess what? Those errors will scale as well. So to round this up, What are the strategies to try to mitigate these issues with specification gaming and reward hacking? Well, human oversight, of course Ensuring constant human supervision, we as humans must always be able to make the final decisions. And then slower deployment of AI models. Let's make sure We can ethically review them before deploying them. And of course, continuous monitoring, evaluating AI in various environments and conditions, and of course the incentive humility We need to be able to acknowledge that metrics are very often incomplete and may also not take any sort of context into consideration as well. That's it, thank you for watching, I will see you in the next class