Let's now take a look at the alignment problem, which is a big one. Now, traditionally, what exactly would we refer to as alignment? Alignment would be when the AI's objectives match the human goals. So basically there is an agreement between the human goals and the objectives of the AI. But ethically speaking, it's a bit broader. Okay. We say that there is ethical alignment When the AI behavior aligns with human values, it respects dignity, fairness, and context, and it acts appropriately when rules conflict. It sounds simple, but it's actually very profound. We may think that it should be very easy for us to create AI. that aligns with our human values, but it's far more complicated than that. Why? Well because human values are very vague. Yeah, we want to be fair, we want to be reasonable, we want to be harmful, but what exactly does that mean? What is reasonable to one person might not be reasonable to another person, right? And then context-dependent. A lot of the things we talk about, a lot of the things we try to accomplish, it's all context-dependent. And then sometimes in conflict with each other, we create one rule and another rule, but then to satisfy that rule, we need to break this rule. So there's conflict all the time. And yet AI systems they're not like us humans, right? They require explicit goals. Tell the AI exactly what it needs to accomplish. The clear reward signals, the AI needs to know that okay, it's actually doing what it's supposed to do, and then precise optimization targets. So this mismatch creates unavoidable ethical tension. Now there's another issue in here from the alignment problem. It breeds the specification problem. So The core challenge here is how do we specify what we want in a way that would actually capture our true preferences? So basically, there is a law called the Good Hearts Law Which you should know about. It says when a measure becomes a target, it actually ceases to become a good measure. And why this matters for AI? Well, we very often specify goals through proxy metrics Things like you know clicks, engagement, scores, powerful optimization pressure on proxies will lead to unexpected behaviors. We're gonna talk a bit more about this in the next lesson when we go into the Uh specification gaming and reward hacking. And then the better the AI gets at optimizing, the more it can exploit the gap between proxy and true goal. So, as an example, just to give an example to explain what all of this is Let's say for example a company has created an AI to help it maximize engagement on its social media platform. Now, the naive alignment here would be: well, maximize engagement, but in order to be able to maximize engagement, the AI should be able to measure the engagement in the first place. So, how do we measure engagement? The time spent by the users, the number of clicks, the number of shares, uh comments. I I should have added comments on the slide, do forgive me. Comments as well. Comments is a very, very good way to also gauge uh level of engagement. So the issue right now is that in an attempt for the AI to maximize engagement, it ends up promoting outrage and polarization because it knows that oh When I promote topics that are very toxic, that are very polarizing, it's gonna gain far more traction than just you know safe topics, right? And then recommends conspiracy theories and misinformation as well. We all know how conspiracy theories can go viral and then of course creates filter bubbles, optimizes for addiction. rather than user well-being. So congratulations, your AI was able to maximize engagement, but in doing so, it ended up uh affecting the users. The users became more toxic, more depressed, more angry. And that's just the unintended consequence. So, in an attempt to now try to improve the way an AI can align its objectives with human values. The idea for value learning and preference inference was born. So rather than specifying goals directly, let's have the AI learn the human preferences. And From this, we got the inverse reinforcement learning, the IRL. So basically, instead of the traditional reinforcement learning, where we humans will give feedback to the AI, the AI would learn, the AI would improve. Let's have the AI observe human behavior instead and then infer the reward function humans are optimizing for, and then align the AI to that inferred reward function. Ideally, this might sound like a wonderful idea, but of course we do have some challenges in that humans are inconsistent. We're happy today, we're sad tomorrow. This is fair today, it's not fair tomorrow. So the AI itself is gonna get confused. And then humans can always demonstrate. How do you demonstrate to an AI that you're happy? How do you demonstrate to the AI that you are sad? How And then of course whose preferences? Whose preferences are we talking about here? Whose preferences is the AI supposed to learn from, right? So just to run into, I'm gonna give you a quick case study Involving Claude or ChatGPT, basically any AI you've ever used for uh creating content, right? So modern language models like Claude will use reinforcement learning from human feedback I'm pretty sure you've observed this before where you go on ChatGPT or Claude, you type in a question, and then it gives you two different prompts. Okay. And then it asks you to choose which response you prefer. That's basically reinforcement learning. You now have to tell the AI that hey I prefer this response. The AI learns and then Going forward, it tries to uh give you responses that are similar to the one that you chose. So generates multiple responses, humans learn which responses are better. Train model to produce the responses that humans prefer Now, we do have some success in here in that, okay, the AI can learn and effectively provide more helpful, harmless, honest responses. And also can capture our nuanced preferences that could be hard to specify explicitly. So, yeah, there are some advantages towards this, but then of course we also have the challenges or the disadvantages, limitations. Basically, we humans can only evaluate a limited set of outputs. It's basically just two, right? And then it's also possible to gain the feedback. Sometimes we may be tired. We may just just say you know what I prefer the first option even though we might not really prefer that particular option it's just because maybe we don't have time you don't want to start going through we just say hey just choose option B and then you know we don't really care right And then whose feedback? It's typically people who are Western, educated, industrialized, rich democratic populations. And then preference versus the truth. Uh humans might prefer confident wrong answers, which is actually true. You know, sometimes when the AI gives us some information, even though we might think that this doesn't sound right, but because the AI can might be so confident. In the way it presented its case, you might think, you know what, it's this is actually true. It has to be true. The AI is way too confident. And sometimes, sometimes There might be situations where we may just prefer to deceive ourselves, okay? We may ask the AI for an objective uh response to a question. And the AI gives us the answer that we want. Not the answer that we need, but the answer that we want basically uh reinforcing our Delusion. Let me just put it that way. Sometimes we as humans we want to be lied to. Okay. We want to be lied to. We don't want the truth. And the AI doesn't know this. The AI feels that, oh, if you told me that you like this or this is the truth, then That's the truth, right? And so the AI can learn uh a bad habit from there. So that's it for the alignment problem. Join me in the very next video where we're gonna take a look at specification gaming and reward hacking, which is also part of the alignment problem. I will see you then.