Let's now talk about trade-offs and why perfect fairness is impossible to achieve Now, when AI systems are concerned, there's typically this trade-off between fairness and accuracy. Typically, the more accurate an AI system is, the less fair it's going to be, and vice versa, the more fair an AI system is, the less accurate it's going to be. As an example Let's imagine we have an AI system that tries to determine whether or not an applicant should qualify to receive a loan from a bank. Let's assume the bank has this, you know, this AI system for grading. uh loan applicants. Now, based on history, based on the data, the factual data I might add, it's been shown that applicants between the ages of 21 to 30 Have an 80% chance of not being able to pay back the loan. However, we have an applicant who is between 41 and 50 They have a 65% chance of actually paying back the loan. So obviously, based on the statistics, based on the numbers, the AI system knows correctly. That applicants between the ages of 41 and 50 are generally better applicants because they have a much better chance of paying back the loan. So It's a very very accurate system and now we have an applicant who is 24 years old. Obviously he falls into the former category You know, applicants be between ages of twenty-one and thirty have you know an eighty percent chance of not paying back the loan. So he applies and let's assume for a second that this applicant this 25-year-old applicant is actually a legitimate applicant who will be able to pay back the loan But because of the data the AI has to work with, the AI knows that oh, the probability of this 25-year-old paying back the loan Is only 20%. There's an 80% chance he will not be able to pay back the loan. So guess what? The AI system flags the applicant as a red mark And the bank says, we're not gonna give this guy the loan. Now, on one hand, the AI system was accurate in determining that because this is a 25-year-old and based on the Statistics, we know for a fact that people in this particular category 80% 80% chance of not paying back the loan. However, it's not it wasn't also fair because guess what This was a legitimate 25-year-old who could actually pay back the loan, but because he just so happens to fall into that category, he was denied a loan. So now, very accurate AI system, not very, very fair. But imagine if the system was actually very very fair And would have said, you know what, even though you fall into this category, we're gonna give you the loan anyways. But what if this 25-year-old applicant Just so happens to be like the majority of those applicants within that range that don't end up paying back the loan. So You're gonna have this constant trade-offs between fairness and accuracy. It's almost impossible. It's impossible basically to create this magical AI system that is completely that is 100% accurate, but also 100% fair. Because guess what? Ironically, in an attempt to achieve maximum fairness You might end up running into other issues because what exactly is fairness? How do you define fairness? Would you define fairness as equal outcomes Equal opportunities, equal false positives, like what's actually fair? It is impossible to achieve 100% fairness at all times, as an example Let's say a company wanted to hire 100 people. Okay? 100 people and It says, you know, because we want to be fair to both genders, we're gonna hire 50 men and 50 women. Okay, so fine you wanna be fair, okay, that's fair enough, right? But what if A hundred men applied for the job. They're taking only 50 men, but 60 of those men were actually qualified 40 weren't qualified. But then for the women, a hundred women also applied. But guess what? Only 40 women were qualified, while 60 were not qualified So what now happens in your attempt to achieve the equal distribution between genders, you want 50 men and 50 female, which is fair But then you are now automatically excluding 10 men who were qualified. Because remember, 60 men were qualified. You're gonna exclude 10 men who were qualified for the job All in an attempt to get 50 women, of which you're gonna add 10 unqualified women to make up 50, because only 40 women were qualified in the first place. So, how is that fair To the 10 men who are actually qualified. You see, it's almost impossible to achieve 100% fitness at all times. There's a certain fitness metric that you have to focus on and say, look This is the metric we're going to try to focus on. You cannot achieve 100% fitness. It is impossible. In the real world. It constantly changes, all right? What is fair right now might not be fair tomorrow. Fairness is something that we constantly negotiate. It's not just this One outcome that we can simply strive for and then forget about the whole thing. It is something that we have to constantly negotiate. So moving forward, how can we actually apply these ethical frameworks and fairness Professionally? Well, first of all, we do need to accept that there will always be trade-offs. Let's not pretend that our solution is 100% fair. There is no objective fairness. Okay, there is always going to be trade-offs no matter what we try to do. So we need to accept the fact that there's going to be trade-offs. We need to acknowledge this. And then second, we can also include affected communities. If we know for a fact that all are algorithm might negatively and unfairly target a particular kind of demographic. We need to take that into consideration as well And can help us achieve a certain level of fairness. And then sometimes maybe it's best to simply not just use AI. Just because we can deploy AI, because we have the technical expertise or the funding, doesn't necessarily mean that we should in the first place. Sometimes having an actual human do the job Is much better than leaving it to artificial intelligence. And then, perhaps most importantly, context matters enormously. We need to take into consideration the context. It's not just about the numbers, it's not just about the statistics. Context is very, very important. What might be fair in healthcare might not be fair in another industry. What might be fair involving two particular groups of people might not be fair. When you're comparing three groups of people. So we need to take context into consideration at all times. Now to summarize Let's just remember that there is no such thing as objective fairness. Even the so-called fair approach or the fair outcome. It will always favor one particular person or group of people more than others. It's just the way it is. Objective fairness is impossible to achieve. And like I said, that's just the way it is. So thank you for watching. I will see you in the next class