Alright, let's now talk about bias and AI. And what exactly is bias when AI is involved? Well, bias and AI occurs When an AI system produces systematically unfair outcomes due to a prejudice assumptions embedded either in the data or design And by data, I'm talking specifically about the training data with which the AI model worked with. Now there are several types of biases. Data, historical, measurement, algorithmic deployment, interaction, and confirmation. Let's take a look at them one by one, starting off with arguably the biggest one. The data bias in AI. Now, this happens when the data with which the AI model is trained with is either incomplete, unbalanced, or maybe even biased, right? So Basically, you can either have the under-representation or overrepresentation of certain types of groups, and it's the classic garbage in, garbage out. If you provide the AI system with a garbage training data to work with Guess what? Don't be surprised when it provides you with garbage or outputs. Next is the historical bias in AI. So even correct data Reflect on just social conditions. And this happens, historical bias can happen whenever context is not taken into account as well. So Basically, here the AI might just make its decision based on statistics, on numbers, without realizing that context should be taken into account as well. So You can have past discrimination becoming future prediction. AI trained on history. Guess what will reproduce history? Next is the measurement bias in AI systems. As an example, you can have proxies used instead of direct measurements. Let's say a bank AI system wants to award creditworthiness to an individual But because the individual belongs to a particular zip code known for affluence, let's say some very, very important celebrities live in that particular zip code. The AI system can assume that oh this person must be uh credit uh trustworthy because they live in this particular zip code without realizing that that person might actually be uh the biggest uh defaulter when it comes to paying back our credit. We also have the algorithmic bias in AI. Model design choices amplify disparities As an example, optimization goals unintentionally favor one group. So this is a very, very big one, and this is just bias coming directly from the algorithm with which the AI system is being uh is operating with. Then we also have the deployment bias in AI, where AI systems could be used outside their intended context. Basically, misuse of AI. Human behavior changes once the system is in place. So say for example, going back to the uh surveillance system. Let's say for example the whole idea was to have this surveillance system to keep track of criminals, but then the humans in charge of the AI decide that you know what instead Let's start spying on the individuals, even the innocent ones. That can happen with deployment bias. And then of course interaction bias with AI. So here, bias emerges through ongoing interaction between users and the AI. You may have been responsible for interaction bias. I know I certainly have. So the system would learn from user behavior prompts or feedback. Basically, when you tell your AI system whether it's ChatGPT or Claude that you know This is so, this is so, this is so. Eventually the AI might start to think that you know what, yeah, you might be correct actually. That's interaction bias. So Handful patterns are amplified through repeated use. Now, interaction bias Can also lead to confirmation bias in AI, where AI systems will simply reinforce existing beliefs. Patents or assumptions. Now, very often people tend to assume that interaction bias and confirmation bias are basically the same thing because it's all about interaction, right? No, there is a difference With confirmation bias, the bias already existed within the AI system because of the data with which we're trained with. It says right here, models are trained or tuned to confirm what decision makers already expect. So if you have a bias developer who trains its AI model using bias data to promote some sort of agenda. The AI system already has the confirmation bias because it's been trained to believe in this bias. And then the interaction bias. Now imagine a user Begins to use that AI system who also believes in that same bias that will simply fuel the confirmation bias the AI system already had previously. So, feedback loops reward predictions that align with prior judgments. So, what is the impact of bias? There's many of them, but I boiled it down to three. First of all, discrimination Bias can lead to unfair treatment of individuals, trust loss as well. People may lose faith in AI systems overall. Why would we put our faith and trust in an AI system that is biased? Of course not. And then of course legal challenges. Biased AI can lead to serious legal issues. I will see you in the next class.