Now that we've taken a look at the four ethical frameworks, let's see how they would be applied to a real-world case study. So Let's assume for example that there is a particular town somewhere in the world where there is plenty of crime going on and the government Wants to introduce an AI-powered surveillance system. Now the argument here is that well, if we introduce this particular surveillance system It's gonna help bring down crime. That's going to be the argument. So let's take a look at what the four ethical frameworks would say about this proposal. First of all, the consequentialist, obviously Well that asked the question, okay, well, what's going to be the outcome of this AI-powered civilian system, right? Will it help to bring down crime? And if it does, by what percentage? Who is going to be harmed? Who is going to benefit? So basically again, consequentialism is all about the outcome. So it's gonna focus more on what would be be the outcome, and if it does in fact help reduce crime, then it might actually be a good thing, right? The deontologist instead comes in and says, I don't care about what it is you're trying to achieve. I don't care about the fact that this could lower crime rates. What about the people's right to privacy? Are we now going to treat people as mere civilians targets? Is sacrificing people's right to privacy worth the the the I mean, is is it worth sacrificing that just in the name of bringing down crime rates? Is it really worth it? And then of course the virtue ethics comes in and says, Ah, what does this say about us as a society? Where are we going? Are we becoming this dystopian society where We now need civilian systems to track us. Won't this create distrust among the people? Won't this create this sense of fear? And then care ethics comes in and says, ah, who is going to be harmed by this? Will minorities be negatively impacted by this AI-powered surveillance system? What can we do to ensure that they are not targeted and they're not unfairly treated by this AI-powered surveillance system So the point here is that no particular framework is perfect. No framework has all the answers. No framework is completely correct or completely wrong. Now you may have your own take, you may have your own views, you may have a particular framework that you agree with. However, if we're being rational, we cannot argue that each of these frameworks don't have valid reasons why to support or be against the AI powered surveillance system. The uh consequentialists can argue that look This AI powered system can it can actually reduce crime. Wouldn't it wouldn't it be nice if we can walk on the streets at night? without fearing being being been robbed or attacked. Wouldn't that be great? That's a very, very valid reason, right? But then the deontologists will say, well What about people's right to privacy? Should should we just, you know, sacrifice people's privacy just so we can introduce this air powered sibling system? That's a valid reason too. And of course, virtue and care ethics is all about, you know, who's going to be harmed What will this do to us as a society? This could create distress. These are all valid uh reasons to either support or be against the AI-powered surveillance system. So the point of this video is just to teach you that No framework is perfect. Every framework has its strengths. Every framework has its weaknesses. And like I said in the beginning, The whole point of ethical frameworks is to explain or show why rational people might actually disagree on something. Thank you for watching, and of course, I will see you in the next class.