Let's now move on to the third framework, Virtue Ethics, founded by Aristotle himself. Now, the key principle behind virtue ethics is that it's all about the character of a person It's all about being a good person. We're not focused on outcomes like consequentialism. We're not focused on rules like deontology here. It's all about who the person is, what is their character. So it tends to ask this question: what would a virtuous person do in this particular kind of situation? So This particular framework it tends to cultivate really wonderful things like you know wisdom, uh courage, compassion, honesty, justice, you name it, right? So how this applies to AI is that We're not concerned about the AI being built. We're concerned about who is building the AI. The developers. Are they good people? Are they virtuous people? Are they humble? Are they greedy? These are the kinds of questions we should ask. So we should focus more on the developers themselves. And if they're good people then it's all gonna be fine. Now virtual ethics does have its key strengths. One is that it emphasizes the character development and culture It also recognizes the importance of the application of practical wisdom, focuses very heavily on humans making decisions. Again, it's all about the character of the people involved and then values like you know humility, honesty, uh generosity, wisdom, you know, these kinds of values, they are crucial for AI safety because the thought process here is that If the AI developers are actually good people, if they're virtuous people, there is a very good chance that the AI that they make will actually be ethical. But with all that being said, it also does have its key weaknesses, just like with other frameworks. One is the fact that, well, there is a very vague guidance on what being virtuous means, right? Like what what happens in a situation where you have two or more virtuous people disagreeing? Just because they're virtuous doesn't mean they will agree on every single topic or subject. So what now happens in the situation where you have these virtuous people disagreeing? And then also, whose virtues are we talking about here? What does it actually mean to be to be virtuous, right? People's cultures are different. One person might be very virtuous in their own culture where they come from, but if you are to judge that same person By the standards of another person's culture, they might not be as virtuous. So again, whose virtues are we talking about here And then it's also not scalable. Yes, you know, virtue ethics is fantastic for human development, for individual development. But you can't apply virtual ethics on a mass scale. You can't apply virtual ethics in in corporate governance. So to summarize, yes, virtual ethics is very, very, very important because it focuses on the character. of the AI developers because their character matters enormously. However, virtual ethics alone isn't sufficient for governance. I will see you in the next class