Alright, so let's officially begin the course by taking a look at what artificial intelligence is. Obviously the heartbeat of this entire course is AI, so as such We do have to spend a few minutes just to go over what exactly AI is. So, what is artificial intelligence right now? It all depends on who you ask. Okay, people will have different definitions of what AI is But for the most part, we can say that AI will refer to computer systems that can perform tasks which typically require human intelligence. So if you're talking about tasks like you know recognizing patterns, making predictions, being able to classify information, being able to generate text, images, recommendations, also videos, of course. And then also supporting or automating decisions. These are just some of the very many tasks that artificial intelligence can perform on our behalf. Now, uh contrary to very popular belief, and even me myself, sometimes I often wonder, is it actually true that AI systems do not think because I know how I interact with you know Claude or Chat GPT. Sometimes it feels like I'm talking to somebody, like an actual friend sometimes, right? And the way it will respond, it's like, oh, it actually thought about the answer, but AI doesn't actually think. They don't feel or understand in a human sense. They basically lack emotions. So they process data, they have the ability to identify patterns. And then produce outputs that are based on the learned statistical relationship. So the key clarification here that I want you to go away with is that AI isn't about consciousness or emotions. It's really about decision influence. And that in itself. Will play a key part in our discussion throughout this entire course. Now, if we were to compare AI with your traditional software, okay, let's say uh Photoshop, right See, traditional software will follow explicit human-written rules. Photoshop has been developed by Adobe programmers. They write code. So basically, the software will act based on the code. That's it, right? So the behavior is very predictable If you write a program to do something, it's always going to do that thing because that is the code. That's the way it's been programmed to act. So the logic is also very transparent. If you write a code that says a equals b and then you say a equals 1, therefore b will be equal to 1. Its logic is very, very transparent. And then the same input will always produce the exact same output. That is key. Regardless of How you want to try and spin things with traditional software, what you give is what you're gonna get every single time. So, as an example, If the temperature is above 30 degrees, well, turn on the air conditioner. Simple. And as long as the temperature isn't above 30 degrees The air conditioner will not be turned on. Very, very simple, very logical, very transparent AI systems on the other hand are a bit more complicated, right? They learn patterns from data That's what they were meant to do. They're meant to recognize patterns based on the data they've been trained with, based on the data that they have access to. So basically they kind of they kind of learn on the job. So the behavior can change over time. That is one very key distinction between traditional software and AI, the behavior of an AI can actually change over time if it is exposed to new kinds of information, new kinds of data. So outputs are probabilistic, not deterministic. It will give you its output based on the probability that sus and so and it's not often because, oh, this is that. Not really. Internal logic may be difficult to explain, and this is the black box problem we're gonna talk about much later in the course, but Sometimes when an AI makes a decision, it's very hard to explain why it made that decision. It's not it doesn't seem logical. Why did you make the decision? We don't know. Again, we'll get to that later uh in the course. It's a big, big, big part of this course. So as an example. A system that predicts whether a loan applicant is high risk based on thousands of past cases. Sometimes, again, the AI will try its best to make a decision But when it makes that decision based on the data, based on the patterns it has recognized, its output sometimes you look at it and you're like thinking, how did you arrive at this? At this uh at this at this result, how? We don't know. So, ethical significance of this is that AI systems do not simply execute instructions, they generalize from past data. And AI won't necessarily just give you what you want it to give you. Sometimes it's just gonna make the decision based on its data, based on the patterns it has recognized over time. So When it comes to AI, there are two types I want us to quickly talk about, the narrow AI and then the general AI. So narrow AI, which is today's reality, whether it's a Chat GPT, Claude, Gemini, you name it They're designed for specific tasks, they operate within defined boundaries, and they cannot transfer knowledge between domains. So as an example. Your recommendation systems, facial recognition, fraud detection, language models, all AI systems in real world use today fall into this category. I know that sometimes When you see the quality and just how realistic some of the videos that AI can produce today, you're thinking, wow, this must be quite advanced. No, this is still very narrow AI. Now, general AI Some AI experts believe it's possible. Others say we're never gonna achieve general AI. It's just only in the movies, okay, only in Hollywood. But general AI will process broad human-like intelligence. This would be AI that can actually match. or possibly even surpass human intelligence. So they're gonna be capable of reasoning across domains not currently achievable. I don't want to make any predictions. I don't know. It's possible we might get general AI. It's also possible that we'll never get it, at least in our lifetimes, right? So important for this course. Now I put this out here specifically. AI ethics today, the one we're dealing with, they focus almost entirely on narrow AI systems already deployed We're not talking about ethics about for general AI because it doesn't exist yet. So we don't need to concern ourselves with that. All we're concerned with is the ethics. Of the AI that is currently available and is in use today. So what AI does, like in the real world settings, AI systems are typically used to rank people or content. score risk or likelihood, filter options, predict future behavior, influence human decisions. There's so many others, I'm sure you know, but these are just a few. So AI often does not make final decisions, but it can very strongly shape outcomes. influence human judgment operate at a massive scale. How many times have you in the past year gone to AI, whether it's ChatGPT or Claude? You ask it the question. or recommendation and based on what it gives you you actually act on that recommendation. I have Okay, I recently bought a new laptop a few months ago. And guess the laptop I bought. It was recommended to me by ChatGPT. I simply went in there and I said, hey ChatGPT, give me your recommendations for laptop. They can do this, blah blah blah blah blah. And I went with a top recommendation. It's a good laptop, don't get me wrong, it's a very, very good laptop, but it influenced my decision. Uh last year I went to Japan on holiday for just two weeks. And it was ChatGPT that gave me my itinerary. It recommended I go to these certain places and you know it influenced my decision. And I'm pretty sure you have also been influenced by AI. So at the end of the day, AI won't necessarily make the final decision. It's just gonna give you its own output. And then you, of course, as the human, you have to make your own final decision. So, an AI system as an example, an AI system may not reject a job applicant. However, if the AI chooses not to show that resume to an actual human in HR, the outcome is effectively the same. So the AI didn't necessarily reject the applicant. It just chose not to show that resume to the human. In HR, does effectively make sure that that applicant doesn't actually get the job. So Why this matters ethically? AI systems are ethically significant because they can affect large numbers of people simultaneously. And I want you to also keep this in mind when I'm talking about AI, I'm not necessarily always talking about Chat GPT and Claude and Gemini. I'm also talking about fraud detection, I'm talking about facial recognition, other kinds of technologies where AI is uh uh is is in use. It can also reinforce existing inequalities. We're gonna get to this later. Operate invisibly. Sometimes AI does things and we don't even know, oh, that's actually AI. It makes decisions and then we don't actually even know why it made that decision. Create power asymmetries between those who deploy the AI and those affected by it. We're gonna delve very deep into this in the uh ethical frameworks. Lecture. So ethical concerns arise not from AI's intelligence necessarily, but from the scale AI being deployed at massive scale. I mean millions and millions of people are now using AI. The speed at which AI is being deployed, think about it, every few weeks you we hear of a new AI model being released. ChatGPT 4. 5 has been released. Two weeks later, oh ChatGPT 4. 6 has been released. It's you know, so many AI models being released very very very quickly, it's hard to even keep up. And then the opacity as well, the transparency, the black box problem. We're gonna talk about it later. And then the delegation of judgment, a big, big, big topic we're gonna delve into later as well. So, really quick, some common misconceptions about AI. AI is neutral because you know AI lacks emotions, AI isn't human, AI doesn't think. AI just gives you a very neutral result. Hmm. False. Very false. Because in reality AI reflects the data, assumptions, and goals chosen by humans. These AI models they are trained based on specific kinds of data And if that data that they're trained with is faulty or biased, guess what? The AI will make a biased decision because that's what it knows. Misconception number two, AI is objective. No, uh AI isn't objective. AI systems they encode value judgments even when they appear technical. That's all it is. Nothing more, nothing less. Misconception number three. AI replaces human responsibility. Uh no. AI doesn't replace our responsibility as humans, as those who actually use the AI. Instead, it will redistribute the responsibility, but it does not remove it. Key key key key point. And then number four, AI decisions are more reliable than humans. To be fair, I I think Uh most people don't believe this, but some people still do. So AI can amplify errors and bias at scale. I can't even tell you the number of times uh ChatGPT has given me some very nonsensical answers. I'm like, really? I thought you were supposed to be smart. Okay, ethical framing. So throughout this course, all right, I don't want you to think of AI as this. Okay, we're gonna treat AI as a socio-technical system, not just a technical system. Socio technical system because we are talking about ethics embedded in organizations, markets, and power structures, AI designed and governed by humans, very, very important. And then capable of causing harm without intent. AI has already caused harm. Again, we're gonna talk about this later in the course, but it's not because the AI intended to commit that harm. It did so because based on the data it has, that's what that's the result it gave us. So this treatment is essential for meaningful ethical analysis. Okay, so again, when we think about AI in this course, think of it as a socio-technical system Embedded in power structures, organizations, designed and governed by humans, and then capable of causing harm without intent. So a quick summary before we round up. AI systems they learn patterns from data rather than following fixed rules. Again, remember traditional software will follow fixed rules, but AI learns from patterns and data. Most AI today, of course, is narrow, task-specific, and already deployed. AI influences decisions at scale often invisibly. And then ethical concerns arise from how AI is used and not from the intelligence itself. In fact, for the most part, I'm actually fine with the intelligence. If AI is capable of you know, been very, very, very intelligent and we can use AI to achieve great things. Fine. I'm all for that. It's just of how It could be misused. And that's often the problem. Whenever you have this fantastic new technology, it can be used for good and it can be used for bad. So that's a quick introduction to AI. I will see you in the next class.