Alright, so who builds AI and whose values will get embedded? Two very, very important questions. First of all. We do have this thing that we call the concentration problem in that AI research and development Is typically handled by a handful of companies either in the US or in China. So in the US, for example, you know, we have Google, we have Meta Anthropic, OpenAI, Amazon, and so on in China where they have Beidou, Alibaba, Tencent, and so much more. So at the end of the day, you have a handful of companies located either in San Francisco or Beijing. That basically are at the heart and development of AI, which is of course going to revolutionize the way we live in the world. And of course, they're typically built by predominantly male and elite educated engineers. Now, why is this an issue? Why do we really need to pay more attention to this concentration problem? Well It's their values and their blind spots that will shape global AI for the most part. They're the ones that will decide, hey, you know what, we're gonna build AI to do this, we're gonna build AI to do that. They're the ones that will decide what AI will essentially identify do. Now, as a result of this, we end up having issues like the facial recognition, the 34% higher error rates for dark-skinned people. We talked about this earlier already. Voice assistants struggling with women's voices, and then problems affecting marginalized groups discovered either late or just simply ignored. So we end up with these different kinds of blind spots because the development of AI is limited to a very small selection of people. In two different countries. I mean, let's think about this for a second, alright? AI development is either in China or in the United States. I don't even think of any country in Africa or in Europe or in South America That can compete anywhere close to what uh US and China are doing. And that's a problem. So at the end of the day, we do have certain values that will get embedded through to the AI that's developed. First of all, the problem selection. It all starts with a problem, right? We need to build AI to solve a particular problem. What's that problem? Well, as an example, you may have the AI developers who say, hey, you know what? We need to create AI for facial recognition, for a surveillance kind of system. Or they might say, hey, you know what? We're gonna build AI that can be accessed by anybody, everyday people. They might build AI for advertising optimization or for scientific research. They might also build AI That could be used to create autonomous weapons that can be used as autonomous weapons, or they could use AI that can be used for medical diagnosis. So At the end of the day, they're the ones that will decide what the problem is and then build the AI to solve that problem. The next value comes from the design. How are we going to build this AI? And also, how do we measure its success? What do we determine the AI to be successful? When is it a failure? And then, of course, what risks are prioritized? They might say, hey, you know what? Yeah, there might be a risk to the invasion of your privacy if we build this AI for official recognition, but hey, there's gonna be some trade-offs, right? In exchange for a little bit of your personal privacy, we might be able to reduce crime by 50%, right? So there's always going to be trade-offs that will be determined by these people. And then of course the training data, okay, the very, very big one. What patterns does it learn? What kinds of data will these companies use to train their AI? We end up with historical biases in data. We've seen this multiple examples already. Overrepresentation or underrepresentation of some groups, and then of course what's measured and what's ignored. The last one in here, the deployment decisions. Very, very important. Where and how will the AI be used? Which communities will get the beneficial AI? Which ones are gonna get the civilian AI? And then, of course, terms of service, pricing, access. All determined by this handful of companies. So basically, in other words, what I'm trying to say here is that we have way too much power concentrated on a very small selection of people and companies. So As an example, alright, predictive policing. Okay, let's say uh we're trying to create a surveillance system. Okay, I'm gonna show you the values embedded at each stage. So The first value in here will be the problem selection, okay? What gets built? So they determine that you know what we need to build AI to reduce crime. And they've assumed that the solution to reducing crime is to increase the amount of policing. Okay. Now, the design, how is it going to be built? Well, they determine that you know what? We're gonna build an AI to optimize for arrests and stops. And then of course the trade-off here is that well there might be community concerns that people might not necessarily trust or like the system, but hey, there's gonna be a trade-off. We're aiming to reduce crime. And before we can reduce crime, the people have to give up some of their privacy And then the data that will be used to train this particular facial recognition AI, historical arrest data reflects biased policing practices because the data used is biased. Guess what? There's gonna be biased policing practices as well. And then the deployment. They end up deploying this AI that targets the poor or minority neighborhoods. While ignoring white collar crime. They say, well, you know what? What happens in uh in Wall Street? That's Wall Street. Okay, we're not really concerned about that. Instead, let's focus more on the poor or the minority neighborhoods that's how you can have the bias deployment of AI. So at the end of the day, you simply have a system that reinforces and amplifies existing inequities while appearing to be objective. So this is a big problem, all right? The concentration issue. I only wish that we had AI development and research in many, many countries in different continents. So it's not just in the United States and in China. I wish There were one or two countries in South America, one or two countries in Africa, maybe more, and you know, additional countries in Europe as well, all, you know, creating AI. The fact that at the end of the day, AI research, development, only a handful of companies, and just basically two countries Uh at the heart of it is uh a bit of an issue, but it is what it is. So thank you for watching. I will see you in the next class.