So let's talk about ethical frameworks and why they are important. The first thing I want you to understand is that ethics isn't about one's opinion or their intuition. Now, frameworks, ethical frameworks provide us with three very important features, which are structure, consistency, and justification. Without these ethical frameworks, most ethical debates will involve political opinions and could also be very emotional as well. Now, before we delve deeper into these different frameworks I want you to also understand that AI typically involves trade-offs, right? So you may have an instance where you have to decide: do you want accuracy or fairness You might be able to create a very sophisticated AI model that will be very accurate in its output, but the trade-off here is that it might not be fair on how it achieves its output. But then you could also create a very fair balanced AI system or model, but isn't also very accurate in its output. And then you also have the trade-offs between safety and privacy. One person might support the mass deployment of an AI surveillance system where you have cameras everywhere, right? So the argument here is that well the more security cameras we have on our streets, the safer we will become because it's going to lower crime rates But the trade-off here is that people's privacy might be abused. People will not want their pictures to be taken. They wouldn't want them themselves to be monitored by some camera. So that's the trade-off. Safety or privacy There is also the trade-off between innovation or restraint. An AI scientist might think, hey, you know what? I could create this AI model that could change the world, that could disrupt this particular industry. But then he also thinks that you know what? Even though this AI can do wonderful things, it could also be misused, and the negative impact of its misuse could be far greater Than the positive impact. So as such, I need to exercise some restraint. So at the end of the day, ethical frameworks are very, very important because They show why reasonable people disagree. The use of these frameworks clearly explains why one person might agree with this particular kind of use of AI. While another reasonable person might disagree. That's why ethical frameworks are very, very important. So join me in the very next video where we're gonna take a look at the very first framework, consequentialism. I will see you then.