So now that we've talked about AI, let's now move on to the other part, the other key fundamental part of this course, which is ethics. And We gotta ask ourselves, why do ethics actually matter? Why are you taking this course? What's the big deal about ethics and AI? Why do we need ethics when AI is involved? That's what we're gonna tackle in this video. So Again, comparing technology and decision systems, decision systems have been replaced for AI. Traditional technology will execute human decisions. We've talked about that in the previous video. However, AI systems they shape, they recommend or automate decisions, they can influence outcomes at scale, and then also operate with limited human review So there is a key shift here from the traditional technology that are just tools. Whether it's your Adobe Photoshop, your Windows Media Player. Uh Microsoft Word United, these were just tools that we used to achieve certain kinds of results. But now we've shifted from just mere tools to decision infrastructures. Again, we talked about this in the previous video How many times has AI, how many times has ChatGPT made a decision for you and influenced your your your your decision? How many times? So many times, right? So we have that clear shift from just mere tools that we use to now. Technology that can actually influence us. So, delegation of judgment. Humans delegate judgment to AI systems And those decision decisions are increasingly pre-filtered, ranked, and then scored. The AI does all of this and The key issue here is that usually by default, we humans very often trust AI outputs. What the AI gives us, we typically would believe what it's saying. It's only in certain instances where maybe we're trying to find out what AI knows about a particular kind of subject, and then we we also know we also have a reasonable amount of knowledge about that subject. So if the AI gives us an output that doesn't match with what we know about that subject, then we can begin to like ask, like, okay, I don't think this AI is correct. However, in most cases where we know nothing about the subject, we know nothing about the question we're at with about the result we were looking for, what AI gives us is typically what we're gonna go with because we trust AI's output by default. So the ethical question here is: when is it actually acceptable to delegate judgment to the AI Scale changes ethics. Again, remember that one AI decision, one single AI decision, can affect thousands, millions, or even entire populations. The errors they scale instantly and biases become systematic. Imagine an AI that's put in charge of the of the of Wall Street, the the financial markets It makes one critical error, and millions of people could be affected by just that one single error. So the ethical implication here is that small design choices can cause widespread harm And then speed also reduces reflection. AI systems operate continuously. And it's not just the operation, it's also about the development. And the deployment of new AI. Like I said in the previous video, it's like there's a new AI model every every every every week. Gemini comes out with version 2. 3, nano by nana version 4. 5. It's like It's so hard to keep up. So decisions occur faster than human oversight and then limited time to question or intervene. So the result here is that ethical review is often bypassed in practice. Opacity creates our countability gaps. Again, the black box issue, which we're going to talk about later in this course. But the thing is, many times the AI decision will the AI will make a decision that cannot be fully explained. And then the responsibility is very often distributed across the developers, the organizations, the vendors. Like if an AI makes does something, let's say makes makes a critical error, who is to blame? Do we blame the developers who built the AI? Do we blame the organizations that actually use the AI? Do we blame the vendors, the people who actually sold us the AI? And some might even argue that, hey, we blame the actual user, because why would you trust the AI's output in the first place, right? So there is no clear accountability here. So harm occurs without clear ownership. So the core issue here again is that who is accountable when no one fully understands the system? So and then harm without intent. AI systems, they do not intend harm. AI systems aren't evil. I know if you've watched uh Terminator and you know you know if you don't know the movie Please go and watch it. For me, it's one of the greatest movies of all time, Terminator 2 and one fantastic movies. Uh AI isn't skying it, okay? AI isn't look looking to buy power to the human race and we need John Corner to, you know, come and save us. No. Uh but even though AI doesn't intend to cause harm, it can still cause harm because of biased data that it has been trained with. uh misaligned objectives and then unintended correlations. Sometimes the AI can glitch. Sometimes I'm sure you've experienced this before where AI hallucinates, right? So the ethical shift here is that we're moving from intent-based ethics to impact-based ethics. What's gonna be the impact of this? We'll delve more into this later. And then why ethics cannot be optional? Ethics cannot be optional. It's mandatory. Because legal systems are reactive. Yeah. Legal systems are very often reactive. We only have legal systems, we only have laws when something bad has occurred. How many times have you ever heard of a law that was created to prevent something from happening in the first place? Extremely rare. Laws are typically typically created to prevent something that has already happened before from happening again. So it's basically reaction. Compliance focuses on minimum standards, and this is another big issue because most of the time all these compliance uh requirements is often based on the bare minimum, a checklist. Okay, do A, B, C, D, E. Okay, fine, you're compliant. No need to do F G H I J K. No, no need for that. Okay. But most organizations, by default, they will just go with the compliance. Okay. Hey, are we compliant with compliant? Good. Let's move on. Let's move on to something else. Ethical failures often occur before regulation, like I talked about earlier. So the conclusion here is that ethics must guide AI before deployment, not after harm. If you're creating AI, before you deploy that AI, take ethics into consideration. So AI ethics help identify foreseeable harm. Anticipate misuse, balance competing values, and then protect vulnerable groups that might be affected by the AI. So ethics, in other words, basically is risk intelligence What is the risk of us deploying this AI? What are the risks? That's where ethics comes in. So ethics is not about perfection. We are humans, we can never be perfect, right? So no AI system is risk-free. You're never gonna have any uh any sort of AI system. I don't care how well it's designed, I don't care how well it's trained No AI system can ever be risk-free. Ethical decisions will involve trade-offs. I'm gonna talk more about this in this course So many times when you're talking about ethics, you're gonna have trade-offs. Trade-offs in terms of okay, what's going to be the actual complexity of this particular AI model What would it be able to do? The more complex it is, the more complex tasks it can perform or achieve the less ethical it might be. But then if you want that AI system to be more ethical, then it might not be able to perform as complex of a task as you might want it to. Reasoned judgment matters more than just the right answers. No, we we we we need to have reasoned judgment. Forget about oh, this is the right answer, or we're compliant. No Give us reasoned judgment. So, what this means for you, if you're watching and you are an AI developer If you design, deploy, or manage AI, you influence outcomes, you share responsibility whether you like it or not. And then ethical awareness is part of professional competence. So Quick summary, AI changes how decisions are made, scale, speed, opacity increase the ethical risk. And of course again, harm can occur without malicious intent. Ethics is essential to responsible AI use. But before I go, I want to give you some questions to reflect on, okay? Reflection questions. The first one here is when should judgment not be delicated to AI? Think about that for a second, right? When is it not okay to delegate a judgment to an AI? And then is impact more important than they intend? If an AI does something wrong, okay, let's just say it did something wrong, do we care more about the impact? How many people were affected by that wrong decision or Do we grant leniency to the AI and say, well, let's look at the intent, right? Is it intent to cause harm? Which is more important, the intent behind the AI's decision, or The impact, the negative impact that the AI caused. And then last one, who should be accountable for AI-driven harm? Do we do we hold the developers responsible? Do we hold the organizations that use the AI responsible? Or do we just even hold the actual user, the person who actually used the AI, responsible? So these are three questions I want you to reflect on. I will see you in the next class.